This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Ritwish Parek, the Senior Director of Product at The Times of India, who's led groundbreaking efforts in developing personalization systems in the media space. In this episode, Ritwitch shares valuable insights on the scalability of personalization models for news, the importance of addressing bias in data. and the crucial role editorial teams play in the process. Hi Ruth Welsh, welcome to New Room robots. It's so great to have you here today. Thank you for having me. Brith Woodge, your work at The Times of India, one of the largest newsrooms in India and globally, focuses a lot on the personalization of news and that's what you've been focused on for the past few years and I think it's an important type of artificial intelligence that we in the news industry need to be talking about a lot more than just generative AI. And this is A new form of another type of AI called recommender systems. Your work at the Times of India over the past few years has shown that it does improve a lot of the engagement that you see online and it's converting us from that just a digital place where you just come and it's a one-stop all for everybody, but making it a model that fits everyone. And since we know that news is not a one size fits all That's what personalization helps us in doing. And so I wanted to get to know a little bit more about Times of India's journey with personalization. Can you talk more about how you started this and when did you start this entire journey with personalization? We started working on this project around three years ago. The focus, it's called Signals. And the focus has always been on building a in-house model that solves our specific problems. We've learned a lot during these last three years and we've released multiple iterations of the model. Currently it's live on the website in some widgets and for a certain percentage of the app users, a part of the feed is personalized. Additionally, some of our push notifications are also personalized. Over the last one and a half year, we've sustained increment in CTR of almost 85% on the web And almost 30 to 40% on the app. What's more interesting is the fact that while most editorially distributed stories are less than maybe a day or two old Around 50% of the page views from personalization come from stories that are greater than two days old. So we are able to tap into evergreen stories in the archive and recirculate them That's been our journey with personalization. That's interesting. So can you talk to me more about as a user when I'm coming onto the app or the website? How exactly am I experiencing that personalization? So visually it looks exactly the same like every other story listing, but right above it we leave a label called as for you and that's about it. And so that's the articles automatically, the widgets that are showing you the for you articles, and that's completely taken care of by the recommender systems. Right. And how did you see what when you started making the business case for experimenting with recommender systems? What was the main like opportunity or problem that you were trying to solve with this type of AI? So historically media has always been personalized. It took us some time to realize that even newspapers and TV channels, when they started launching regional channels and regional editions, they were in principle personalizing in one way. It's localization, but it is still personalization simply because you are putting out more relevant stories and more targeted relevant ads. So media has always earned and grown due to personalization. And over the last 15 years, if you think about it, YouTube, Facebook, X, Twitter, all of these are personalized platforms. At the end of the day, users want what the user wants. And so I think the business case eventually just stuck that If we want to grow our own platform consumption and direct traffic, we will need to personalize our products. And what would we say like has been some of those key lessons you've learned from personalization? Because it's kind of really hard, especially your personalization in news. It's very different from what happens on your Netflix and Amazon and all of the social media com companies platforms. How would you say the personalization Developing that has been the learning lessons you've gotten from that process. When we started, our first thought was to just buy an off-the-shelf personalization API and plug it to the website But over the last three years we've realized it's actually a completely different way of operating your business. And the challenge is that there aren't many personalization models that were In principle, built to run news businesses. So effectively, most news companies are using personalization to add a widget here or there, or add a tab within their app But if you look at YouTube, if you look at uh all social media or even Google search, they're essentially the entire business is run through personalization. There is nobody setting the homepage for YouTube in India versus US. The algorithm and the company and the product is scalable by across geography and time. So we had to take the hard journey of defining what it means to build personalization for news. The first question that we ran into was what is news if you think from an algorithms perspective And so we came down to this definition that the business of news is all about chasing moving targets. Effectively the editorial team is constantly chasing a news cycle. It keeps changing. Our distribution teams are constantly chasing a changing SEO algorithm or changing trends on social media. The floor prices of ad rates are constantly changing. So effectively from a recommender systems perspective, the news, the business of news is always about chain uh chasing moving targets. And the second part to this is that each part of it moves at a different speed. So if you think about it, so in fact there was a very good Project or a research done by Google News and I think Axios. It's called News Lifespan, where they've laid out four different types of news cycle curves So there's one news cycle curve where the news breaks, it spikes up, and then it drops very quickly. Then things like elections, they have a slow build-up and a quick drop Something like what's happening in Bangladesh right now. There'll be a quick ramp up and then a slow died down over the next couple of months. And then things like COVID, which are constantly evergreen So, given all of this, it's a very dynamic system. We cannot build a recommended system the way Netflix has built it or maybe a real estate company has built it. We need to find our own solution And so what does that solution look like? How is it different from what's already out there in the well-known recommender systems that these companies have built out? So, like one of the key parts to this is that we need to observe this changing reality, whether it's on SEO or the news cycle or social media trends. And from that decipher how to imitate that reality. Because while interest is one part of it, the news cycle often supersedes interest. When it comes to distribution. So let's say actually there are multiple examples here. So let's say there's breaking news in Rwanda. Now typically that news wouldn't feature on the homepage of Times of India. But let's say if I have family out there and the algorithm is caught that I end up reading that story and it knows knows that it's breaking news right now, then it should end up on the home page Then historically, let's say I'm right now living in Delhi, but I'm from Bombay. So if you've built your distribution by knowing which city I'm living in. Right, you'll only show me Delhi stories. But ideally I want Bombay and Delhi stories both. So our key lesson here is that build self-learning AI without any rules embedded in the algorithm. So and let the algorithm pick up what is the right things to show at this moment of time. And a lot of that is fueled by data. And in order for the AI to even understand all of that So talk to me a bit more about then how you're building that kind of like data infrastructure to power all of this. So our first thought was to build it on top of Google Analytics data, but most Google Analytics data is delayed, possibly by almost 24 hours. And additionally, you need to send all of this data back to BigQuery, download it from there. So at least at the times of India, we've gone ahead and built our own in-house data pipelines. It's a tool called as Growth Rx. When we send all of our clickstream data. It's extremely low latency, so it happens almost in real time. We've also built very strong data audit tools to ensure that almost like a BFSI company, like a banking company, we are able to Treat our data with as much accuracy as possible. All of that real-time data then ends up in a warehouse where we on top of which we end up building our models It was a very hard journey to build a big data system like this, but yeah, I think it's a foundational infrastructure for any kind of recommended system. And within that system, you are capturing all of the data in terms when a subscriber is logged in, in terms of the past stories that they have read. the interests, where they are, the location, and that's all powering. And so how's that powering the recommendation system? So yes, we captured everything. Anything that we can capture, we dump it inside that. So how long have the people read stories? How often are they coming back? What devices are they using, etc. ? While we store all of this, we don't necessarily use all of these aspects in our recommendation model simply because news is a low average revenue per user. Product, which means we have a lot of users, but we earn less per user. And given that we cannot spend a lot of money on algorithms, unlike maybe big tech companies. And hence we are very judicious about which data points. to use. So we use as less data points as possible to personalize. So think of it as a multi-tier system where if you're dipping into the archive, we'll have only one or two attributes associated with each story. If we then we will go ahead and reduce from let's say the archive, which is probably, I don't know, 10 million stories, bring it down to a million. add few more data attributes. Then from a million down to maybe 100k, add few more data attributes. So there is constantly this this calculation of what is the least amount of information that can give us the highest return That's interesting. And so when you talk about self-learning AI compared to the rules-based, where you're saying if they read this, then these are the types of articles to read, perhaps Talk to me more about how that system works, the self-learning AI model that you have developed, learning how is it learning all of the different patterns and attributes It's a very interesting question. So so let me try answering this with an example. So typically at 4 a. m. or 5 a. m. all of our print stories get dumped into the CMS automatically. So that at that moment of time, the supply of stories into our system spikes suddenly. And all of the stories are relevant and timely. Given that the recommender system now observes that these are the best stories to recommend. So it's a good situation for the recommender system. And then across the day, the online newsroom will produce us maybe a certain number number of stories per hour. So typically by 1 pm, 2 pm, the quantity of recent stories drops And so we started observing that when the supply drops, the CTR drops because the personalization model doesn't have enough recent stories of your interest. Now, there were two ways to address this. Either I put a hard-coded rule that says that from I don't know 4 a. m. till noon, please look at recent stories and after noon, try to Go deeper into the archive to search for a person's interest. But by putting that rule, what would have happened is that we are now restricting ourselves to a big dump of stories Only at that moment of time. What if we start importing let's say our uh stories from a sister publication, let's say Economic Times or India Times And that comes at 3 p. m. How do you account for that? Would we then add another rule for at that moment of time? The answer is no. So we have to build self-learning AI systems much like how we drive a manual car So there's a clutch and then there's an accelerator, you reduce the clutch and you press the accelerator. So similarly you need to build a system where it sees that the CTR is dropping It identifies it and now that we've established causality that the supply of the stories is the reason why the CTR is dropping, it needs to go deeper into the archive. Instead of we defining a rule, the model itself tries to find it. And with all of this as well, have you built in editorial judgment? feedback and data from editors regarding the story that supplies and powers this model. We've had a bunch of false starts during our tests. So there were times when stale stories would be recommended. So we are lucky enough to have an editorial team that constantly helps us evaluate which like if there are errors in what we are recommending. Additionally, often in the past they've also supplied us with training data. So they've tagged which stories are maybe let's say evergreen stories which are not. But more importantly, I think a lot of our conversations with the editorial team with respect to what is news, what is editorial judgment. How would they have chosen in in a particular situation? The explanation that they give us helps us formulate some of these things in AI terms. I think that's a much bigger contribution. And finally, of course, we have a content moderation layer out there which will help them reject anything which shouldn't be recommended And how would you say when you introduce this form of personalization the first time, which is very different to how the homepage would have been set with the homepage editors having full control over what's seen over there. How did that cultural shift What were some of the key lessons you would have learned from that? Did you learn from that cultural shift over there? So we still leave the first five stories or a certain number of stories that are Editorially recommended because it's important for edit editors to drive the first five or the first page view or the first scroll rather. But apart from that, I think our editorial team understands that till we have built a model with the guardrails of what journalism's ethics are. They're pretty fine with it. In fact, one of the best things about working in a newsroom is that all stories are vetted. All stories are written by journalists. There's no conspiracy theory or there's no fake news out there. So we are in fact operating in a very safe environment. So if there should be a personalization system, it's in a newsroom and not outside one. I love reading your LinkedIn posts and your newsletter that you just started as well with a lot of insights on media business strategy and media innovation. And over there, I remember you said only a machine can beat a machine when it comes to search and social. And just speaking now broader about the media industry and recommenders in media, you believe that It's a really, really crucial transformation that we as an industry need to be looking at. Can you elaborate a bit more about that idea, an opinion of yours? So I think the CEO of Netflix had said that they compete with people sleeping, their the sleeping time. And in principle, I think we as an industry compete with social media, search, chat GPT, Netflix, OTT platforms. right for attention and it is important that we we look at that comp competition very clearly otherwise time spent on our platforms will keep dropping Now given that the tools that they use are essentially recommender systems like Amazon changes its prices on its platform almost 2. 5 million times a day of products and the fact that all big companies are personalized and they use recommended systems, it's a very clear signal for us that we should actually pick them up It is very similar to saying that there is no rich country with low energy, like energy as an electricity. Similarly, there is no rich media company that doesn't have strong data pipelines, strong first-party data and deep algorithms. So given that, so on one side is all of this and we compete it with analytics and if-then business roles And I think there's no competition between the two. One's a knife, the other one's a gun. So if you look at it, analytics effectively is a backward-looking science. You can look at information, but information that's one day old, one week old, one month old. Analytics is also often a blended gives you blended data. So it'll give you information at the level of a platform or at the level of a cohort or a segment However, the moment you do that, you're missing out on the nuances of what each person wants. And these are patterns that we as humans can't observe. That's only what machines can observe Right? And machine learning works. That's why 60% of all trading in the US is algorithmic. That is why all big tech platforms are algorithmic And hence I think it's wise to adopt these tools to compete with the right competitors. And how do you see just the the personalization of the technology? evolving, especially with generative AI um coming into play as well. What what are the main opportunities you see with You have the recommendations recommender systems, but now with Gen AI as well. So historically all of us have personalized through distribution. And this essentially comes from the fact that a lot of this technology was built in the e-commerce industry. So shoe or a teapot is not a malleable material. You can just sell a shoe. But that's not the case with content. A movie can be a trailer, a movie can be a clip, right? But you can't do that with e-commerce products. So historically all recommended systems have been one of distribution Now with generative AI, effectively we have the tools to now transform content from one format to another. So I foresee that effectively In the long run, most focus of editorial teams will be on news gathering and news verification, whereas most news production That is once a story is written, how best to write it, how best to present it, etc. will be give given over to recommender systems. And let's say if I like stories, uh let's say I like politic story but not more than two lines, then I'll see it only in two lines. If I like cricket stories, but the tr provided the cricket match was like a match where India played, in that situation I'll see a much longer story with a lot of photos. So we will see Gen AI transforming personalization into and take over how content is presented. And when you talk about all of that, that requires, at least at the current system a bit of human oversight as well because of the risk of hallucinations. But also, as you mentioned, it's a low average return per customer that we get in for a customer in the news and for every news consumer. And putting into all of that, how do you see like managing that costs associated? with AI, how do you go about like basically calculating what our return on investment is for all of these AI initiatives and opportunities that are there? So to your first point, I think with LLMs, the problem of generating content is solved. But the the challenge remains whether that information is still presentable. Is it hallucinated or not? I foresee that eventually most newsrooms will train their own LLMs with their own archives to solve this problem. But I think it will take a couple of years more until reasoning comes into uh LLMs we'll not get there. So that's the first part. Now coming to the ROI. So I foresee recommender systems becoming the operating system of the news business. The business of media is a real estate business where every pixel should either drive engagement or monetization. Now for good or bad reasons, most media companies have diversified their revenue prematurely. We end up running affiliate businesses, we end up running direct ads, indirect ads, sponsored content. subscription models. This necessarily makes our business extremely complicated. And when you end up in a situation where you have limited real estate on your apps and your website and you need to Manage all of these business models. You don't know what to how much space to give to each business model. And hence you end up in a situation where each revenue model cannibalizes the revenue of another business model. Let me give you an example. If you increase the quantity of affiliate stories Maybe that user was not interested in affiliate and he might have wanted a subscription, wanted to buy a subscription, and now affiliate has cannibalized subscription revenue Let's say you increase the quantity of subscription stories, but maybe the user, he is an extremely loyal user of your platform, but he just doesn't want to pay for subscription. And now you've cannibalized that engagement of a loyal free user via whom you are earning ad revenue. Just to increase our subscription revenue. So these are trade-offs that we need to manage. And so I imagine that in the coming years, recommender systems and news businesses will evolve to operate more like fintech slash mutual fund algorithms where we look at each revenue model let's say affiliate subscription sponsored content Direct ads, indirect ads as a different asset class similar to equity, debt, gold, real estate. And then for each user, now you identify what is the probability of this user buying a certain from a certain revenue model. You calculate the risk-reward ratios for each of these and you build a unique portfolio for that particular user. So not only are your stories getting recommended or personalized, but also how will you monetize for each user and into what ratio also gets personalized That's really an innovative way in which I've heard of recommender systems and news being talked about, this sort of idea of mutual funds of personalizing that risk-reward ratio for every person down. And That actually brings me to another question I have is about for you to get to that space of understanding and learning all of these different lessons throughout of building recommender systems. You have to go through multiple different iterations of this system and experimenting with it. And so how do you how do you go about Building that culture of experimentation within your product. So there are two parts to culture of experimentation. The first is are you experimenting for the sake of experimenting? Like are you testing a blue button versus a green button? Or do you have an extremely strong hypothesis behind why are you doing what you're doing? And it's just a question of validating it. So I think this entire culture of A B testing has taken a lot of us as product managers down a wrong path where we constantly do not have a strong hypothesis. And we're like, hey, let's say B test it. But that's not the right way to do certain things simply because, as I mentioned earlier, the news business constantly evolves. And even if you Roll out an A B and it proves that it has improved your business by let's say 50%, right? But that A B is run only for two weeks. After two weeks, what's going to happen is that the A B is going to get committed for all your users for all eternity. in your code base and there's no way to know as the new cycle changes or as trends change is that A B still valid? So I'm pretty sure there's a lot of code in a lot of news companies and a lot of business rules that are not valid anymore and they are just cannibalizing revenue and engagement. So with the whole mutual fund system and the way in which you're thinking about this innovative way of recommender systems, that also brings about and necessates a lot of changes with the way in which the structure of the companies are organized and how do you see newsrooms like preparing for that transformation? This is an extremely hard transformation. A lot of newsrooms are structured more like offline businesses, say Unilever. However, that's not how internet businesses are structured. So let me give you a few examples. There is only one YouTube, irrespective of what content you want to consume. However, let's say a publication, let's say Vox. Is split into 10, 15 different publications. You have the Word, Strategizer, New York, and Vox itself. And necessarily, what this means is that the Vox media has split its own Audiences focus across 15 different publications. Historically, this was the case simply because news media companies did not have ad targeting systems So they were creating publications simply for the reason that how do I prove that I have affiliate audience? Let's launch publication that is focused on affiliate. How do I prove I have a wellness and lifestyle audience? Let's launch a publication, focus on wellness content. But now with recommended systems and ads, you do not need this anymore So this is the first problem where we follow a house of brands strategy in our org structure. The second problem is even within one of these brands, you have division heads for each of the different revenue models. So there'll be a different division head for affiliate versus indirect ad versus direct ads or sponsored content or subscription. And each of these have been given a different AOP target to achieve However, what's ignored is the fact that all of these different division heads are operating on the same surface area and the same users. So it's on the app and it's on the website. So same surface area and the same users. And hence you end up in a situation where each of these division heads are essentially locally optimizing for their own targets. versus globally optimizing for the company's revenue. It is similarly, let's say as a industry we focus a lot on general management. Whereas I think increasingly you need specialists to identify what are the different technologies and innovations to bet on. So if you look at it, effectively most news websites look the same, they operate the same. have similar house of brands, like everyone has a business site, everyone has an affiliate site, etc. The reason for it is the industry is filled with a lot of gender managers There aren't many situations where a company has broken through with a very clear tech innovation that gives them. A symmetric advantage over the others. I think all of this is due for change. And you've also called for collaboration across various functions within the media within the newsroom. And so how do you see that cross-facilitation collaboration, that collaboration across the newsroom being instrumental in terms of like how AI innovations are implemented within the news drum. So collaboration across functions is extremely critical simply because we are operating in a in an extremely complicated business. You have editorial, you have ad tech, you have product, distribution, audience engagement, etc. However, There are two ways to look at cross-functional work. The first is: are you doing it as a one-time project, let's say for elections or for COVID or something like that? Or are you leveraging cross-function insights to build an asset that will differentiate your product compared to your competitor? Often we end up building technology which is more like a services project instead of a long-term asset that differentiates here. So let's take an example If you use, if you ask the editorial team, they have a ton of insights to provide to product and tech as to why are they recommending certain stories, why have they chosen to cover something or not cover it? Why did they choose to cover it in a certain way? Their editorial judgment needs to be understood and then encoded into algorithms. This is something that Is an important function which, if cracked, it becomes an asset for the company for the long term. Because you now have a recommender system which is built specifically for news. It'll run the operations of a news company effectively. Whereas if you're building let's say a project simply for elections, you once the elections passes, it's there. But it's not differentiating you because every other publication will have an elections project. And so that's how you are being able to differentiate yourself is because you're focusing a lot more on the asset of Bringing together this cross-functional collaboration and leveraging insights to build an asset over here, which is your own unique bespoke recommender system model versus just a tangible project that has a lifespan of its own. Right. And you can similarly take insights from other teams also. So I think there's a lot to learn from even the ad targeting teams. Because they sit on a lot of data. So what can we learn from ad data to actually influence editorial? Similarly, there's a lot to learn from let's say the subscriptions team because they will end up talking to audiences much more. Now all of those information now needs to be encoded right inside of your algorithms because they will have a better assessment and evaluation of what works for your audience and what doesn't. Now, if you build this once as a cross-functional team, it's going to stay there for years to come. It'll reduce your operational tasks. greatly so that every single team member across the board can focus on higher order problems and more strategic thinking and problem solving instead of just meeting today's operations needs. And also when you speak about ads, another topic that I remember reading about that you'd written about is like the revenue optimization. And that's a really dynamic game in the industry. And so how do you see also AI helping with optimizing revenue for a newsroom? So what I spoke about with respect to mutual funds, it is part of the revenue optimization game because it is essentially trying to Reduce unrealized gains from your own platform. So if you are likely to click on affiliate, then affiliate story should increase. If you're likely to click on subscription, then subscription stories should increase. But while doing this, you should also look at the cost of revenue. Which means that like I'm trying to come up with an analogy, you can sell wood by chopping a ship down. And earn let's say $10 from it, but you've now cut down an asset which is a ship. So unless you calculate the cost of revenue, right, there's no way to know that will this be strategically profitable. Like I'll give you another example. There's this famous joke, right? How do you become a millionaire? You start a billionaire, start an airline company, and then in a couple of years you'll become a millionaire. So the cost of revenue is basically that We can internally choose to say that we will now do subscriptions or affiliate or something like that, but until you know what's it what is it going to cost in terms of all other revenue models There's no way to ensure that long term you are earning more than what you are right now. And this this calculation can only be done by recommended systems. And also when you talk about building assets What are your thoughts on versus building a bespoke model for yourself versus in the context of generative AI as well, taking buying off-the-shelf tools over there. Which one is the a better option for a newsroom, especially for generative AI when the technology is moving so rapidly So I would split this into a different way of looking. Let's say identify what is at the core of your business. So I think recommended systems and distribution from an audience perspective is at the core of our business. Effectively, we are in the game of buying and selling minutes of attention. You give out content, people come to your platform, they give you their minutes of attention, and you Sell some of that to advertisers. Now hence recommenders, whether it's from ad targeting or from personalization, is at the core of the business But if you're using AI to actually do things like generate a cover image or to rewrite a story or extend, convert it into bullets, stuff like this, these are things on this On the side of your business, it's not at the core of your business because you could have just replaced that function by adding more people. It isn't going to determine most supply-side innovation unless it's extremely critical, are not going to change your revenue. You can come up with the most beautiful visual story out there, spend a lot of money reporting on it, designing it. But if you do not have the ways to ensure that your audience is reached there, there's no way to earn money from it. So most of these innovations are at the supply side of things and are not cut the last line. Most of these innovations are at the demand side of things where you capture the variables with respect to how you are earning money. And not it's not about cost optimization. I really like the way you put it is looking at these technologies as what's at the core of your business. And if it's at the core of your business, it makes more sense for you to own it because you're building that asset internally. Whereas if it's not really that instrumental to the way in which your audience is reached, how it's perceived, that technology is better to be like taking tools off the shelf or something like that. So the moment LLMs become critical to distributing content, personalization through rewriting of content, peop news companies will go ahead and train their own LLMs. Right now they are just being seen as cost optimization tools and hence it is cheaper to use a chat GPT API instead of training your own LLM. So the moment it becomes extremely core to your business, these are I'm fairly certain that newsrooms will train their own models. Like I think Bloomberg has trained their own model. And the reason is they are not necessarily just a news company, they are an insights company. And you cannot get inside strong. And that makes a lot of sense. The way you have framed it, I think, is really a very strong argument as terms of like why right now large language models are seen as that cost optimization, a tool for cost optimization. And it's not really at that level as well, where we can talk as that much about personalization and how the formatting you can do it for different different types of audience. Once that plays into the way in which you're reaching audience, then it becomes even more crucial to look into building your large language model yet. But we're not there at the moment, it seems like And additionally, if you think about it, like generative AI is two, three years old right now. Recommended systems have been around in the market for almost 15 years. We've not fully adopted those and we are imagining that we can participate in the LLM race. It's not practical. It's only through the act of first building strong data systems Ensuring that you're not serving your traffic simply from cash, but you're taking the traffic on your servers. Ensuring that you have ability to roll out recommended systems at scale, that you are now prepared to potentially even train LLMs. For your own use cases. It's a journey that you need to take. So directly jump jumping it, I'm I'm not really sure. I think Bloomberg was able to do it simply because they are a data company. Bloomberg is a data company, they have their Bloomberg terminal. They are far ahead in terms of their technology than most news companies, I would say. So what would you say would be the most critical investment that companies should be making right now for their tech infrastructure so that they are prepared for all of these upcoming changes that are coming in AI. So the first is of course start collecting first party data. That is the most important thing. Second is drive a lot of your audiences to get them to log in so that you know who these users are. If you need to change your value proposition and give them something else that gets them to log in, change your value proposition. But without user information, there's no way to use any AI. The next is uh build great data collection systems and data pipelines. This is way harder than it sounds. It's a solid problem, but it's an extremely tough problem to build in-house skill set in. And it's extremely Costly to outsource. So build great data pipelines. Ensure that you you build your data pipeline in a way that you think of yourself as a banking and finance company and you treat your data with that much respect. Often news companies are changing so fast that the concept, let's say, your data should reflect the reality of what your audiences are seeing. And in a need for speed, we often change the concept but we do not change what the the data definition behind it so we end up with data that is not representative of reality So let me give you an example. Let's say typically all stories that are paywalled have a flag associated with it. And now I build a feature which is going to dynamically add a paywall on a story. But You don't you choose not to change the flag at that moment of time. So now what is a paywall story? That definition has changed. This is called as concept drift. Similarly, there's something called as data drift. So knowing, collecting data is one thing, but ensuring that there is no drift in your data, that everything means what it is supposed uh how it is recorded. is very critical. And I think as a culture, most news companies are not there yet. So I think cracking data is the first big thing. What's been the differentiator for Times of India specifically in your team that you've been able to build that data pipeline and that data infrastructure? How has is it the team that you've built? How has How have you gone ahead and been successful in that? I'm a very lucky person. The company has a lot of great engineers. We've had a history of building amazing technology. There's a lot of foundational infrastructural problems that the company has solved over the years. So I've been lucky to not run into these problems Purely incidental, nothing to do with me. And so this has just been really interesting to get your insights on, especially on recommender systems, which something that I am a huge nerd about especially in seeing how Times of India and the approach that you have taken, especially talking about that mutual fund index way of thinking about recommendation systems is something that I haven't thought about before, I haven't heard about before that concept. And I think that's really what differentiates news is a lot of these added complexities that come into play. compared to market off-the-shelf tools that are out there for recommendation engines. And that's why it's I think we as an industry haven't been able to adopt it as as successfully as well, because we need more bespoke custom models as the way you're talking about. And it's mainly only the big brands as of right now that have the infrastructure ready. to be able to do that. So I've learned a lot about all of this, but one of my favorite questions that I love to ask people is how are you using AI in your own personal life? So we have an eight-year-old daughter. She asks us a lot of questions. She reads a lot. And I think we've Given her access to Chat GPT, we've made made a custom prompt which clearly states her age and states what to what Chat GPT can answer and cannot answer, and that is really simplified our life where she gets to satisfy her curiosity. And we get some peace. Ch That's amazing. So it's a custom GPT build for your eight-year-old daughter. And that's the Because kids ask a lot of questions, a lot of whys, and that's where ChatGPT can come in and answer all of that. Absolutely. All factual answers that exist can be taken over by Chat DPT. Love that. really insightful and very encouraging and promising to hear about how you have built about a really powerful recommendation system at the times of India. and have really thought about the assets and building that core asset at the core of the business to reach audience better. And this has been really insightful. Thank you so much for joining me on User and Robots. Thank you. That was Dritvij Parik, the Senior Director of Product at the Times of India. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark Grand. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.