This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Adrian Gill, the former Creative Director of the Harvard Innovation Labs and founder and CEO of Ad hoc Industries. Adrian is renowned for his ability to bridge the gap between business and its creative organization, having previously been the vice president of Puma, where he led all the creative direction of the brand. In this episode, Adrian and I discussed the transformative impact of AI-powered image and video generation tools on the creative processes. We discuss how AI is reshaping the design landscape and explore the ethical considerations and potential job impacts. Associated with AI in creative fields. Hi Adrian, welcome to the Fiftieth episode of Newsroom Robots. Wow, this is amazing. Hi Nikita, it's so good to be here. This is actually gonna be a very special episode for me. F It's the fiftieth episode of News from Robots, but also because for the past three years you've been my mentor and you have been pretty significant in the career that I'm having right now. And you've been there from the start of Newsroom Robots. Every single thing, all the brand, the design. The way we went about thinking about the podcast name, you've been there through it all, and you were my brainstorm buddy. This is gonna be a very special episode for me actually to be thinking about getting your insights on AI and creativity and design. Because I think you were one of the people who also informed my initial views on how we were thinking about image generation and how we should be thinking about design. and where we can use AI for all of those perspectives. So I'm very excited to get into all of that in today's episode with you. Well thank you so much for the very kind words. Um I must say that this was not really something that I'd say that I contributed that much pro to because I've learned so much from you as well over these three years. So I'm so, you know, amazed and I always uh look at you in awe when I see all the progress that's being made here. And what a difference you're making in this to this topic. It's a really important one for the future. And so I feel really privileged to be a part of this and to be a part of this episode. Thanks, Xavier and that's uh that means a lot. And the reason I also really wanted you to be on the podcast was because these are perspectives. You're not in the news industry coming from like the journalism background, I would say, but that's what's been so informative for me to get a perspective from people who are somebody outside of like the design and the creative world. to understand how we should be thinking about especially image generation tools in this moment of time. For the past year, I have been doing all of these talks On AI and these newsroom workshops. And whenever I go to any of these, if people have been in any of these, I always start out with a survey asking people if they have tried out text generation tools, image generation tools, video generation tools. The text generation, it's usually a baseline of about forty percent of the people have maybe never tried it out. But a lot of people would at least have tr experimented with it, they pay for it. But image generation is one place where I see a lot of people have not even trying it out. They are not even experimenting with it. At least 50% of the people would not even try it. And I feel like as journalists especially we need to be at least experimenting with these tools and knowing what what's possible. But I don't see a use case of image generation tools to just like have an image, put that on a website or something like that, and that's where it is. I think there's so much of design and creativity potential that's possible. And that's what I want to get into today's episode with you, because you come with this extensive experience being the former creative director here at Hobbit Innovation Labs. working with brands such as Puma and you come with such a extensive design experience and creative experience and people fear that image generation tools are gonna take away the job of graphic designers, are gonna take away the job of design teams. And I want to understand what does that mean from you for a designer. So let's start with there, first of all. How do you envision all of these image generation tools from somebody who's very involved in the creative and design side of the industry? Well first of all I'd start to say that Written and visual communications go hand in hand. There's so many times when I'm working with a design team and they want our writers. to write us something that we can build on and vice versa. Sometimes the writing teams will say, well, give us a visual cue. that we can draft from. So the two work hand in hand in many environments where you're really trying to get communication and creativity to gel and become a greater whole. There's the use of AI, I think, is important to state at the beginning, it's really just a tool. Right? As humans, we there's so much creativity and our thought process and our innovative mindsets. All that is future oriented. And so I think that AI can help us augment that, but it never really takes the full role of leading that. So anyone who has a creative idea and is ideating you know, can use AI to further that thought process. It shouldn't take over, but it if you're ideating maybe two days of ideating, it s really looks like two weeks. of ideating. Right? So it can be a very, very good tool if you're strategic about it and you're using it with the right motivation. So let's get into kind of the design process and because when you think about journalism in the news industry, people think it's all about the writing, but in order to build a media brand, there's a lot of creative side that goes into it from building a media brand that's what I know you taught me everything that I know about design is like you have to be having like a visual identity and how that's speaking in when you get into your meetings with your design teams, there's so much of brainstorming that happens behind the scenes. It's not just about going to mid-journey and creating a logo or creating an image for an article. There's a lot more thought that goes into it. So how do you see these image generation tools being used for design tasks? I think it's tricky, right? Because there's a lot of skepticism around the journey and Dali and stuff like this. And most of the concern around those things are around intellectual property and copyright infringement and stuff like this. So that's the qualifier from the very beginning because these tools are scraping millions of images, for example, from everywhere and it comes from images that were already created by someone. So you have to be careful as you at least in your approach, being very mindful of that So the answer is not just to use it as the input and output. Really the input needs to come from a vision, let's say, or some sort of future-oriented thinking of an idea. that you would like to explore and then you leverage the the tools to maybe help you fill in some spots or get to some place quicker I can speak from my Puma experience where we went on design inspiration trips and we would be in Paris and Tokyo and other s great cities drawing inspiration from all these different places and taking photos of everything. But then two weeks later when you get back to your desk. Now what do you do with over a thousand images? How can you find a theme? Like what did you see? What did you inadvertently or you're inadvertently drawn to in terms of the photos that you took? So being able to drop something like that into a mid-journey definitely might help pull you pull themes. from what you saw, something that would be next to impossible or would take really, really long, very simple, right? So it's a really a way of collecting, collating and then providing that initial backdrop, you know, from which you can build your ideas further. That's actually gave me a great idea of with uh Chad GPT's feature of the GPT Vision where you can put in a bunch of images and it can analyze it. That's one thing that you could now do with like these design inspiration trips, put a bunch of photos into Chat GPT and ask it to give you an idea of what it was what you're seeing and themes that you could explore further and brainstorm with it even more. Right, right. It really supercharges your process and input and really is about optimizing the curation and the articulation of your vision. And it's important, you know, for my work not to let AI be visible. It's like, for example, everybody uses Photoshop. But you don't want your images to look photoshopped. Yeah. Right? So it's the same principle where you can leverage AI, but at the end of the day, your own vision has to be front and foremost. Right, that's how you create something that's truly unique. All of these images are based on things that have been created in the past. So if you just rely on this solely, you're gonna get maybe something that's interesting, but if it's all been done before, then is it really new That's where your ingenuity, our ingenuity as humans come in to really create something that is distinctive. and meaningful and meaningfully differentiated from what has been done in the past. And I think it also helps non-designers, maybe talk to designers and have that conversation make it easier because I remember when we were building like the newsroom robots and previous brand, we had gone into designers and you were talking about we have to create these mood boards and figure things out and What do we like and all of that? Maybe all of those ideation stages, is that something like we can just go into mid journey and chat JPT now and be like visions for how a Gen Z looking website would look like and Midjourney dreams up all of these different UIs in UX and you go around and play around with it multiple different times and find features that you like that you can then go and show your designer instead of like from thin air or like just looking at what's previously there. As there also see this as a tool that People who are on the other part of the design process who your clients that you're talking to maybe, this is something that a tool for them to for you to understand more about how they are envisioning things. Absolutely. I think it's so many times I see design breeze from clients that are just a long document with words. And sometimes these words sound very much like other words from other clients with just a different product in mind. And so for a designer, those things almost become things that filter in but can be ignored in some ways, right? That's sort of a little bit of a harsh way to put it. But Not that you ignore your clients, but what they're giving you is not that meaningful because as designers we're visual people. And so the written form of things is helpful, but if you can visualize that in some way, that's also very, very helpful. So the pairing of the two can be much more meaningful. than just a word document with a written brief. So from that perspective, if clients are adventurous and they want to sort of give you the the groundwork of something to move from. I think is very, very helpful for them to try to pull some general imagery or some way to visualize their thoughts It's important though that when that's done, that the designer then gets the freedom to depart from that initial vision. So That is the tricky part because if then you require a designer to come back with something that looks exactly like what you gave them, then Why are you talking, right? The whole point of designers and the design process is to leverage their ingenuity and their creativity and their future perspective on things to bring you back something that's new and well differentiated. So I think it's a very important distinction. It's helpful. But it shouldn't be used as the reference point back to the final output because what the designer creates for you might be some a completely different departure, but just as effective So you we have to be very, very careful about what our expectations are once we have. deliver that brief to design. For somebody as you, like how are you thinking about how are you using all of these image generation tools and work? Like what is is there a different workflow now? Are there new ideas that you were experimenting with It gives you opportunity to speed things up and to try new ideas and try things uh differently, right? So for example, for the last Presence Innovation Challenge which took place last year twenty twenty three. We at the Harvard at the Harvard Innovation Labs. We took descriptions. of all of the teams that were finalists at the President Innovation Challenge, and we dropped those descriptions into Midjourney. Out of those descriptions came some very, very, very interesting imagery, which we applied themes to to get common look and feel And then at the end of the show, when we were promoting the community, we showed all of these teens, but you also showed the mid-journey representation of their adventure. Which when combined together in video created an extremely new dynamic from just showing hundreds of images of the team. And it really, that was a fusion of photography and really draw from just the essence of what their ventures was about. And that process, if we were to try to do it or cells would have taken weeks and it took days, right? So things like that can improve the effect of the creativity. It doesn't replace things and they're complements, right? Of the real teams versus you know, these imaginary worlds that we created via um a journey, but that was an example of an interesting use for effect. for the experience of making sure that we were showing that there's integration, but there's not a dictation of who these teams were using Make Journey. What was it looking like, just so people are listeners when they're listening to it, we have in the Harvard Innovation Labs President Innovation Challenge, there are So many it starts out with about over 300 people apply, they goes down to about a hundred semifinalists, and then finally there are about five finalists for different tracks. So we have like the health and life sciences, the B2B, B2C, and then social impact tracks. And so like Ventures 5-5 finalist across each track. And what was the representation looking like? They were very beautiful images. what the AI algorithm drew on for these teams. Some of them were very literal. Okay. Right? In which case we reworked them. Put in the additional imagery to help move it into a space that was not so literal. Do you have an example of that? Like what what do you mean by that? Well, for example, if we have a venture that is found a new way to design syringes. Maybe the A algorithm puts a syringe in there, but this is about a new form of syringes. So We wouldn't allow just a typical looking syringe to be a part of it, right? So we we would use other prompts then to create something different but relevant into the imagery. And so that's where your creativity was coming in. Absolutely. That's what I mean about applying your own creativity and you know being strategic about how you use it. And also being able to internalize and recognize where there are opportunities to use your creativity. so that you're not under too on the nose on something or if you think something is just too you know, it just felt like it's already been done or is too obvious, right? Those are things where then you look to reapply and reintroduce other prompts in order to get a better outcome. And so this is how Midjourney was kind of used and when people saw it Was there how was the disclosure about it? Were you talking about the AI-generated images being used and how were people responding to that? How were finalists responding to that? Well, it was in a closing video for the President Innovation Challenge. So we didn't say anything about it. Okay. We just showed it. And you know, audience engagement is a big part of what we do. So sometimes you want people to feel things without being told. Maybe don't don't even realize why they like it so much. But that's the essence of design and creativity and art, right? You don't always have to say everything. You can express something and leave it to the audience to interpret their own feelings about it Do you give credits to Midjourney then? The way at the end you're having designed by Adrian Gill. And then is there like a credit to Midjourney at the end you have to give these AI tools? I didn't. Yeah at the end of the day if you take something absolutely you know but who do you credit? Because it's not mid journey, right? It's some other artist that has created something that Midjourney has pulled from. So that's why I mean when I say you can't just take images from my mid-journey and use them verbatim without having some of your own prompts. you know, for things. So in terms of how some of my f design friends work, it's a way to rethink their work. So they create something first, drop that into the mid-journey, and Then that creates something which allows them to maybe think a little bit more about and add new prompts to develop their work further. So in that case, that's a future input that's something that's not existed before that's being input into Mid-Journey. So from that standpoint, that credit goes to that designer In this case, I don't know if the credit goes to the venture because we use their bio for their venture to create the journey piece, right? Or the comba combination of images, we were very, very careful not to just take it verbatim. So we were continually adding our own design inspiration into these these images in order to create something that felt representative of the venture and something that felt well differentiated as well. Do you usually then take them and then put them in Photoshop and then do more editing and adding those creativity like pieces to it? So it's it's not just like a verbatim You generate an image and it goes directly to Photoshop or Illustrator or whatever. Yeah. I mean actually talking about that, that's how we developed Newsroom Robots Podcast logo as well, our designer name. who had prompted mid journey for a robot hand, the background, and then a human hand and then a robot hand holding a pen, which was actually like an idea that you had had about how we should envision the podcast art and we Told him and he he went and prompted mid-journey to specifically get that way in which the human hand and the robot hand was coming together. But then every single thing after that that you see on the podcast are completely done by him is the way he envisioned it putting it into Photoshop. So I really liked it because I was like We otherwise had to get like some sort of stop image or some sort of illustration that was already there where he had to create it, but Mid Journey was able to create it in like a second for him. Yeah. And that's You see that that's the potential really of these kind of like mid-journey tools to be able to create more and more ways for you to expand your creativity. Absolutely. And but I also re reiterate It's about the quality of the input. Right? It's continuously you know iterating on the inputs and really applying future vision and future perspective into those inputs that gets you to a place that is desirable. And how is that going to be changing the role of graphic designers then? It's a hard question because if you separate AI as a tool, that is different from the role, right? Because the tool enables designers to perform in their roles better in some ways, if it's used correctly. So I don't see the role of the designer changing that much. But I see the inputs, I see different outputs, I see how, you know, the speed at which things are done, the volume of information that can be collated in a short space of time. I see those are the things that change the output that the designer can bring to the table. I feel like I have so much more to say about this stuff, like about the the role of design. It's hard to say because is such a dynamic interplay now, right? Using this tool and where's the line really, right? Because a designer that is full of ideas about a particular will will be pushing in so many more inputs potentially than somebody who's out of ideas, for example, and just looking for something. You know what I mean? Like there's different ways and different approaches depending on the designer themselves. So some designers might be much more creative about how they approach it. Others might see it as a tool and really be very efficient in how they use that tool. Some people might choose not to use it at all. So others might be using it to experiment with things that ordinarily would never come together and creating whole new worlds. So Uh the role I think you have more ammunition to do things, but the role itself doesn't change in my opinion. You're capable of doing more, right? Faster. So it's process workflows. It allows you to unlock maybe new ways of thinking and making. Right? But that is the role of a designer, with or without AI. And then actually if you step back and if you leave the design part separately and the creative part of the newsroom separately. What what we are also seeing, which is the same thing that's the threat to the journalists, the journalism industry and the job of a journalist where anybody can go to Chat GPT and write a news article Now anybody can go to Midjourney and prompt it for a picture or a photo based on their imagination and then use that. We are seeing a lot of newsrooms trying that out with prompting an image for a particular article because you always every article that goes on the web needs to have an image and needs to have a story with it and then they're prompting those images. So we we had an example on the podcast, if and media have built it out in their CMS itself where editors can go and for a particular article they can like prompt it and prompt an image that they can then use within their news articles. So when you're looking at those examples now, people who are not designers and not the creative folks in the industry are able to use those tools. What do you think about that? Is that expanding the number of people that can do, or it's still you require a bit of that design expertise to even have the creativity to prompt a tool like this? For me, it comes down to mindset. What is the mindset of the organization? Is it an innovative organization? Is it a creative organization? Do you want your editors to be creative about this or are you just trying to get something out quickly and efficiently and you don't mind if it sits down into the sea of sameness. These are questions, right? And I think it's okay for an organization and some organizations are young, they want they they don't have a lot of money, they need to save time and so they'll run with something and that's understandable too But it always comes down to how well do you want to differentiate yourself and then I I think everybody that's using it, especially for larger organizations Those persons need to have some sort of point of view so that what those prompts, those inputs that that go in are it is crucial to really representing what your article is trying to say. And so It's really, really important to have some perspective. So I would say that it does open up some accessibility to persons who aren't formally trained as designers. But I think if you want the best output, design would be included. And then also when you think about because I'm thinking about like media brands and the the most creative sides in the newsrooms I would say are the illustrators. It's something that you associated with the brand. Like one of the brands that I associate with a lot their illustrations is Axios. They're known for their illustrations and the media brands. But We're also coming to a point where like you can put in a bunch of these inspirations off all of Axios illustrations and then When you prompt it, it's maybe able to do a sort of like a you can do fine-tuning the way you fine-tune large language models. You're fine-tuning like all of these image generation models based on inspiration of past illustrations to start spitting things out in that direction. Then again, you're getting a designer's mind and their talent over there and then training on all of that. Like how do you see all of this changing? The whole design industries, landscape of jobs that they might be able to do. Again, I think it comes back to the organization if that's what their aesthetic is. just small refinements on something that already exists, then that's the definition of what their brand is. If they want to be perceived as forward thinking, then they would do what Axios is doing. And let others then do this fine tuning on on their work. So it depends on how forward thinking you want to be, how progressive you want to be when it comes to design, how distinctive you wanna be, do you want to be part of collage of the past with small tweaks? Or do you want to be a part of future more innovative design direction? and have others follow you. So these are some of the questions I'm trying to put in a very, you know, there's always a lot of in-between, but I'm trying to put it in very, very distinct choices so that persons can understand, you know, what we're dealing with. Yeah. So I feel like it's very if you just replace everything that you say with the word journalist, it would make more sense also for the journalism industry. Like every single thing you're saying is the same thing with the design industry. Like you still need that human input to add to that creativity, the judgment of if it's good. The exact same thing is with journalism. Like you cannot just go and spit out an article. It's gonna be generic like every other article that's been written, maybe. But like you're adding to that editorial judgment and that critical thinking that comes into writing a piece, the same thing is what a designer brings into the table. So just Saying that just going and creating an image from Midjourney, it can help you in for pushing out an article that might be more representative of what you need, but At the same time, if you're creating like a brand or specific articles, you still see the job of a graphic designer, a creative person needing to be there. One of the big concerns is and that a lot of people are afraid of, especially in the creative industry, is that their jobs will be replaced by these tools. Business leaders will not see the need to hire them in that much demand. And if for example, news organizations or if you're at the Harvard Innovation Labs, it'd be use Midjourney to create that instead of going to a graphic designer to be able to build that out. It saved time, it saved the cost. It was easier to do because it was a robot that a machine that you could keep on pumping the M out with like multiple different versions over and over again, which is not possible with the human. designer. So all of those ways, how valid is that concern, especially for the creative industry, about their job loss? Well for the Harvard Innovation Labs in particular, it was the designer that was driving this whole process, right? And that's what I mean. If it was just any person, the outcome would be completely different. Right? So that's what's important. I agree with you the parallels between the design industry and the journalism industry, they're absolutely marrying each other. They're the same concerns that happen both ways and it gets back, you know, visual communication or random communication that work hand in hand and the impact of AI on either is essentially the same. Exactly. And at the same time, I think another thing that I wanted to understand more about is the big concern. that especially the news industry is having regarding using these type of tools and that's why adoption is so low. That's why when I go and ask these questions, at least fifty percent have never even tried out these tools. is because of that concern about all of the copyright and it just feels unethical to a lot of people. That that's what they usually tell me. That's why they don't want to even try out these tools. Because You can go and create like Disney characters, Pixar like copyrighted images from Mid Journey. Now there's a lot of other things that are there. God reels that have been put up in like Dali and all of the other models where if you ask them for a specific person, they will not generate those images just to lead to like less of uh fake images being created. But you have the ability to create copyrighted images. Sometimes something copyrighted might come out in these images. and you don't even have an idea that that was copyrighted or that was something specific to them. So in all of those cases, how do you feel the ethics part of it with the tools? What would you say to the people who are not even wanting to try out these tools because of that? Well, I think they're right to a certain extent to be careful and leaning on your own sense of curiosity as you explore things and really, really being careful about how you express, you know, certain things, wanting to have your own perspective and have it be your own versus something that is generated is absolutely something that I can see as something to want to protect and maybe even enjoy, right? Rather than having it done for you. At the same time, there are probably times where you've written something and you want to see if there's a different way. to write it. You know, maybe there's two or three different angles. Is it I want to add a sense of humor or I wanna have it be whatever, you know, you can describe different tones of voices maybe and have your original writing be represented. in a different way, or at least get some ideas about it, right? So I think that there's no reason to be afraid of these tools. I think it's really about collaboration versus competition. And at the end of the day, if it can help give you a a new idea or make something just a little bit better. I I think that is fair. The problem really comes in is if you're just trying to use it verbatim uh or to create something new. It it's all based on inputs from the past. So Do you truly get something new from it, right? If you're doing something like writing a contract, maybe it can give you a structure that you hadn't really envisioned before. You know, that's a different thing because nobody's looking for necessarily original language in a you know the structure of a contract. But when it comes to writing your own story or an article, this is where I think there's value in protecting original thought. But at the same time, you know, being able to leverage a tool. You know, it's important. We're not using horses and buggies anymore. Right. Do you think it unlocks creativity? I think it can. I think it can unlock new ideas and new ways of thinking about things and new things to include, for sure. And I think the big question that or the major concern that designers are having is about I would say of job loss. That's the first thing for journalists. That's the first thing for everybody in the media and entertainment industry. I've unfortunately had the I've had to meet people who have lost jobs in the industry. And some people have come and told me that they were directly told that they were replaced by AI. And I think that's mismanagement and leaders not envisioning or understanding the role of AI properly. And I think it should be like you should be expanding the pie basically, getting more work done like with AI not like replacing and getting the same amount of work done, that doesn't seem to be a win win situation for any company. in my mind, but what would you say for like designers who need to be staying competitive when it seems like some people might be thinking that they can just be replaced by an AI tool. W How would they need to be competitive and kind of convince, make sure that their role is there and they're able to show the impact that they are able to do with it. What advice would you have for them specifically? I think the brands the brands that stand apart are going to be the ones that understand the value of design. I don't think you can present people who are going to exploit the situation, right? to lower costs and but I don't think that that is going to be the way forward for brands that are sustaining themselves in any meaningful way. So what I'd say to designers is perfect your craft. Continue to look and gather your sources of inspiration and keep an innovative mindset. I think that future perspective is important. Having a a clearer point of view as you design is really, really important. Because if your inputs are just par for the course, then that gives persons reasons to just use AI and not use designers. But if the design profession is really focused on moving things forward and future thinking and new ways of them, which I think we're all in inclined and and predisposed to anyway, but really trying to focus on on that part of it. then I don't think there's anything to be worried about. And what do you think when you see tools like OpenAI Sora, all of the video generation tools that are able to do so much of the creative things that people that's scaring a lot of the industries and the media industry that a tool like Sora is able to create such great videos. Is it the same way you think that it's it's the brands need to be It's not something that you can just be replaced by these AI tools that creativity. You still need a videographer. You still need somebody who has that creative direction to be able to put these maybe you use your outputs from like Sora, but you need to have that creative direction to be able to put together a video that looks good. Right. They're professionals for a reason. And, you know, there's a lot of ways to do things that are par for the course. or things that move the needle. And I enjoy some of these AI-generated things, right? I enjoy it because it becomes a part of my consideration set. as I think about new ways to approach things. So I think you can use it as sort of a competition or a threat, or you can view it as competition or a threat, or you can leverage it. to move forward. Who's really creating these things are gonna be really, really important, right, moving forward. And Can it be that some design talent gets replaced? I'm sure that you can't control what persons do or businesses do when they're looking at their financial situation and trying to make economic choices. I think A part of what all creators do is to be very curious about what is being created around them. And so what happens when all of these new uses come into being and new perspective, new tools come in to create new things? With the right mindset, an innovative mindset, it just it should just fuel what you do, what your input is going to become. And so I think that's where good designers and good design has to focus. Whether videography and all part of the creative set, I think that that's where it has to focus. being aware of what's out there as tools, seeing what's being creative, and really being curious about it, because then that gives you the backdrop. to figure out the way forward. I think that's a really great point to kind of wrap things up because everything that you said again, it's resonating with me because I feel like I say the exact same things about the journalism industry again. The parallels are so similar because it's the design industry and now for me, I can go and go to Midjourney and prompt it like a thousand different times and have that creativity though I can never draw anything or illustrate that way. I don't have those creativity skills. But I don't think I'll ever be as good as a designer as you are with all of the years of experience that you bring. I would never think the way you did for all the brands that we designed with like news and robots and stuff. Like Those ideas were kind of like you were the inspiration, like giving me the ideas and the direction for it. But I don't think I, as a non-creative person, had that. And it comes down to the same thing with journalism. It's a journalist who has an extensive experience reporting on a particular beat has that editorial judgment and curiosity to think through things. And it's not somebody who just picks up ChatGPT and puts a bunch of things into it. and writes an article, it's not going to be at that same level ever. And audience will start to notice the difference between us. Between just like an AI generated image that might look good, but it's not at the level of what when a designer prompts an image generation tool, it's at a different level to what I see like just a common person uh prompting an image generation tool that doesn't have that same creativity to it. First of all, I wouldn't undersell your creativity. Okay. Because you took everything that I mentioned to you and put it on steroids. So please everybody do not listen to her about this. But I do think that the relationship between humans and technology is a very special one. And, you know, we've continued to evolve over time with all these tools that we've had. over the years. Now this one's a little bit different in terms of the expenses of it, but I think now it's a relationship of even more limitless potential. and collaboration, not competition. As humans, we breathe life into these technologies. As long as we apply imagination or imaginations, then I think the possibilities are endless and the future is quite bright. I loved hearing another AI optimist. But when you're talking about all of this, uh my final question that I love asking people and I've actually I don't think I've ever got to know more about this from you and because I don't think we talk about AI about per in our personal lives as much, but how are you using AI in your own personal life? Well I've left the footwear industry a long time ago, but I must confess I have dabbled in some sneaker design using my inputs for I keep hammering on this input stuff, but it's true, you know, like what would it look like if we could do this or that? And how can we make sure that there's a a a new aesthetic. You know, we tend to settle into periods where within the foot where industry where things begin to look the same from brand to brand. Yeah. You know, so uh you know, you can really start to experiment your own things and It's not anything serious, but you know, you can put in all types of crazy things and have fun with it, right? So that's where I've I've used it among a couple of other things, you know. But yeah, round sneaker design is where I've sort of dabbled. And There's a lot of persons that are experimenting with it as well, and that becomes a part of my consideration set. So I um We'll soon have my closet full of AI generated sneakers. The next time I see you, I do ask you where is that an AI generated sneaker? But actually that's my final question. I then got really curious about this when you started speaking about sneaker design and your time at Puma. Would your if going back to your yours then at Puma, do you think you would be doing your job differently now if you had AI? Is there is there aspects of it that would be different? Oh absolutely I think again the design inspiration really being able to pull that together from you know, you're building a collection and you have inspiration from all over the world from many different designers and how do you sort of pull the most meaningful stuff out of that and then have maybe a point of view like when we're writing our briefs for example as product marketing managers. can this be helpful? When you're looking at you know past collections and looking to build on them, taking those, you know, the key elements and looking at what what the future versions of those collections might look like. so many times and this would require some advanced AI, but when we're building our collections we look at our color balance and all on each style and so sometimes you repeat things because your knowledge, you know, can only take you maybe a couple seasons back. So if you're repeating a color combination, maybe you don't recognize it. So if there was a way to help develop all of the color combinations and not repeat them over t over a period of seasons. That would have been helpful as well. So there's many different ways that AI can and will impact the future of things. when it comes to the footwear industry in general. And um I see it as uh as quite positive as a tool there. You know, again, it's about workflow and process and really something that can allow designers to spend more time on designing. rather than trying to um build the baseline from scratch. Wow, that's actually very interesting to hear about. And I'm excited about the footwear industry now. And about your AI generated speakers the next time I see you. But thank you so much, Adrian. This has been so much fun and I think Really, really special to have you on the 50th episode of Newsroom Robots. So thank you so much for joining me. Thank you, Nikita. It's been a real pleasure to be. That was Adrian Gill, the former creative director of the Harvard Innovation Labs. And the founder and CEO of Ad hoc Industries. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab. Bob Grant. I'm Nikita Roy, and this is News Drum Robots.