This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me today is Natalie Helberger, a professor of law and digital technology at the University of Amsterdam and co-founder of the AI, Media and Democracy Lab. Natalie is also the chair of the Council of Europe's Expert Group on AI and Freedom of Expression and serves as an advisory board member of the Reuters Institute for Journalism at Oxford. In this episode, we discuss the ethical concerns surrounding AI in newsrooms. Natalie shares insights on responsible AI strategies. And breaks down the EU AI Act and its implications for the media industry. Hi Natalie, welcome to News from Robots, I'm so looking forward to learning from your research today about all of the use of AI from like an ethical and a legal standpoint. Thank you so much, Nikita. I'm really looking forward talking to you. Rob I very much like your podcast. Thanks, Natalie. I want to really get into a recent study that you published earlier this year with the Associated Press alongside Nick Diarkoplas from Northwestern University. And I found it very interesting this particular question that y'all had posed to newsrooms in a survey that you did talking about the various strategies that newsrooms were using for the ethical use of AI. And I found it surprising that the response, the top response, which was nearly 20% of the court, said that this strategy was simply not to use AI. because of that ethical concerns. And that seems to be a significant challenge we are facing right now. This lack of solution, the major ethical concerns with the use of generative AI. is preventing newsrooms from just adopting and working with the technology. And this is transformational technology. And so it's inhibiting innovation because people are afraid to engage with it. So I really want to dive into and explore in today's episode just how we can address these ethical concerns and how to responsibly innovate with AI. So I'd like to start off with just understanding from your research so far, what are some of like the key ethical risks and concerns with using AI tools that people are kind of encountering and that we should just be aware of. Yes, thank you. And and I agree with you. I also found the the study very surprising and first of all maybe it tells us a lot about AI and how we talk about AI because AI and the implementation of AI in newsrooms is often talked about as a as a technical problem But I think this survey also very much showed it's not only a technical problem, it's also an ethical and and a cultural problem. which also transcended from another study uh bipolis uh uh last year. So It's also really a question of how to integrate AI in a newsroom that that works for people and that resonates with the values. people hold deer and think it important. Yeah, what are these ethical concerns? In in the study we found that actually the the major concern was the lack of human oversight and there is this very strong belief which we also see reflected in other research that as long there's a human watching over V AI, it is more trustworthy, which is something that really requires some unpacking because we can of course observe the output. But part of what makes AI and the use of AI responsible or not is also the input and and the model I found it really interesting. Another interesting thing in the survey was that least popular or least most mostly used strategy was to actually order the systems or do responsible procurement and look into What kind of tools are we working with? So that was really interesting. So lack of human oversight is one of uh important concerns and then The second most pressing concern we saw is problems with the output, inaccurate information, biases, lack of quality in in the content, so that also very much taps into this discussion about disinformation, deep fakes, but also systems that hallucinate and that we cannot trust that the output they give us is is trustworthy. And then there are more broader questions about what does that mean for journalism as a practice and as as a business? What does that mean for jobs? What does that mean for the competitiveness of the sector? What does that mean for the way you do journalism? But what I also really found interesting is what concerns were not mentioned because these were open questions. And right now w when we talk at I in a public discourse we talk of for example also very much about ecological concerns and the role of big tech companies. And I I found it very interesting that these concerns were not mentioned. so much or almost not mentioned in the survey. Which also very much shows again that AI at the moment is still seen as as a tool, like like a computer or mobile phone or a typewriter. and less as a part of a transformation of the way we do media and of society. As you're saying it's uh it is a tool, but it's just part of this huge broader transformation that's impacting all industries and not just the news industry. And I want to dig deeper into the the oversight issue that was brought up as a huge concern, the lack of human oversight. because these AI systems, especially generative AI systems, have the risks of hallucination and bias. How are you seeing us being able to like mitigate that particular ethical concern? It's a really good question. It's also a very difficult question. So of course I think there's a role for human editors of course, making sure fact checking the output, not not relying blindly, uh taking over blindly the input. of generative AI system because in the end, I mean these are bags of words. They're not reasoning. So looking critically at the output, fact-checking the output, exercising editorial Oversight that is one part. But I think we also should be realistic about the possibilities for humans to simply by looking at the outputs see whether the system works or not Because a lot of concerns on the input side, like biases and in in the data, in our currency, whether lawful content for has been tr used for training or not, you simply cannot see only by looking at the output. So you also need to look critically what kind of system is this? What what is the data it has been trained on? What is it optimizing for? What are the weights? So testing the system and but also doing pro uh responsible procurement and being more critical about the kind of tools we use And to the extent they respect our values, our planet, workers' rights. I think these are also important issues when we talk about human oversight. So I just actually wanted to understand with the you're talking about human editors and if you were deploying tools within newsrooms, there's also And I talk a lot about we need to have a human in the loop when building AI systems. But then I think about audience-facing tools, and we are seeing a lot of newsrooms like experimenting with chatbots and those kinds of tools that if we were to scale them, how do we build in that human oversight component and Is this is this something that is feasible if we were to build massive AI systems looking forward to more like the future? Whew, this is a question that I think I would love to discuss with you also because I know you have a more technical background. I think the Part of the reason why newsrooms are actually rather hesitant of using AI directly in the user-facing relationship is exactly because of the real life character and and the difficulty of checking what the output is. And we had of course example with earlier models that went terribly wrong where the models would just talk nonsense and and and still are. And I think that is very much a concern. The hope is also that models get better. and are trained on high quality data and that that can be a way to mitigate these concerns. But I think we also need to consider what we really mean when we talk about human in the loop. and how far this loop is. And someone who's a a party here that is at the moment completely excluded from the loop are, for example, users. and their ability to to feedback or to criticize or or to let the media organization know when something goes wrong. And in our research we actually saw that users would very much appreciate being included in this loop and having the opportunity, for example, to complain or to flag issues. So I think that is the the qu whole question, what kind of loop we're talking about and is that really a loop? It's really important. Exactly. I think that's the the big question. And I think that definition and that loop is going to evolve as well as the technology evolves evolves and becomes better. And you also talk about the whole part about responsible procurement and making sure the tools that we use within newsrooms aligns with our own like missions and goals I've had. I've had a lot of people talk about how they don't want to use tools, for example, like Mid Journey, but might be okay with using something like Adobe Firefly because you're looking at how the training data sets were used, whether it was ethically sourced and it was using people's permission. What are like in addition to all of that, like how do you see responsible procurement being something like a a checklist type of thing, like people are looking at when looking at the tools and vendors that are being approaching newsrooms. We talked actually to a lot of media organizations about that. I was also part of a committee for the Council of Europe here in Europe, on a committee o about the responsible use of AI in journalism And in our interviews with journalists and media practitioners, we often heard that actually a checklist would be really useful. especially for smaller newsrooms who do not have a major legal department who simply find it very difficult what to look out for when procuring technology. So that is also why based on on these conversations and our own research we made a first draft for a procurement checklist. I really like a checklist. What are some of the questions that you might want to ask when you procure technology to be able to do so a bit more critically? So for example, I mean we talked already about data quality. What happens to the data that is fed in? Is that secured? Uh is will that use be for training, which I think also for journalism and the protection of sources is a really important question. But think also questions about liability. Whose liability is it when something goes wrong? And if you look in the terms of use of a lot of these companies You will find that most of the diviability is dumped on the end user, the professional user. So, for example, a journalist using or media organization using the technology What does the the provider of the large language model does to enable human oversight? How much explanation is there? How easy is the interface to use? How easy is it to audit the system? Is there someone answering the phone when things go wrong? Which is also very often heard uh complain that it's really difficult or if not impossible to reach these large providers, especially if you are working at a smaller newsroom. But also issues of course around pricing, ecological footprint. So in this list we try to list aspects that you could look critically into before deciding to to take on a tool to make sure there's more alignment with editorial values. And a lot of the companies right now, a lot of the newsrooms are focusing on building like robust ethical guidelines and principles. for their newsrooms. And a lot of your work focuses on the legal and ethical frameworks of AI. So what kind of advice would you give to newsrooms who are figuring out those sort of ethical principles? when it comes to AI. I think the last year was super interesting because these journalistic guidelines for a very long time they were somewhere on the website of organization and not really updated. Many of them didn't even mention the word digital until last year. And something that the whole Gen AI boom really achieved is was Critical thinking about these guidelines and and if media organization need new guidelines. So I think that was a positive effect of of all the Gen AI debates. And that also means there are a lot of guidelines out there that you could use and learn from and see whether they work for you or not. There has been also research comparing these guidelines and finding that they are more and more converging to certain shared principles. For example, the importance of transparency of human oversight, but also respect for data privacy or source protection, what kind of information to feed or not to feed into the system. So I think there's no need to start entirely from scratch, but there is already has been a lot of thinking in the past year what what are good guidelines that that one could build on But then I also think that responsible use of AI is not only a pledge on paper, but it needs to be a practice. And it's very nice and good to write transparency or human oversight into the guidelines, but to realize them on the ground so that they really work in practice That that is the real work. And I think it's really important to to notice that responsible use of AI is not simply something that you can write up in a guideline and that it will automatically materialize, but one also really needs to think of how that should be then internalized in working practices, in skills, in in new routines. and also in times, funds and incentives to find and experiment how to realize these guidelines and share best practices Could you give me an example of kind of like what you mean when we're when we we are seeing transparency about the use of AI, but then how should we be looking at it throughout the newsroom? in applying that principle. Now yeah, for example, transparency is you already start off transparency for whom? So transparency for the end user, but maybe also transparency for the journalist, for the editor. who has to work with the tools? Is that there? What do these different parties need to know in order to be able to assess automated content upon its value or a work with an AI tool? Whose task is it to provide this information? Is that the RD department? Do we need to ask that from the provider of the tool? how to translate this information in a way that is meaningful for men uh people. There's a lot of talk about explainability, making these models explainable. There's less talk on how to make explainability in a way that is actually actionable and really meaningful. Exactly. That also brings me to another component big AI topic, which is about recommendation systems. I think we focus a lot on generative AI and personalization of news is something that I I talk a lot about because I feel like that's where the future of the UX of news Is headed towards the UX of our information ecosystem is already that. So one place we're not seeing as much experimentation and innovation with is the recommendation and personalization of news. And I think the major concern about that is regarding the concern about creating or reinforcing filter bubbles and creating these ideological echo chambers that's happening already. on like social media platforms, but not being able to translate into news. And so that's why news companies are a bit more hesitant towards adopting that. But I kind of want to understand more about that concept and what have you really learned? A lot of your research has focused on understanding these news recommendation systems and ethically designing them. So what have you learned from the dynamics that really drive this phenomenon. Great question. Indeed, recommender systems had had quite a bit bad publicity with the entire filter bubble discussion, polarization discussion And the idea there was if you recommend everybody the information that he or she would like to see, that at some point we do not have any joint news experiences anymore and we'll fall down in rabbit holes and polarize and and only see a fraction of the information that ideally we would be seeing. We also saw in our research that that was actually a concern of people but also of news media organizations. We also saw, and here our research mostly focused on Europe. that actually there was less empirical evidence for these filter bubbles, at least in Europe, really materializing to that extent. And part of that is that people do not simply use one outlet. So even if you would have a fully personalized platform or media um media outlet People get their information from many different places. And as long as we have a healthy media ecosystem with a diversity of voices and outlets, and people are actually using those. This fear of filter bubbles is less pressing. It is pressing for those people who, for example, only receive their news via TikTok or only via Instagram. because then you have a much you have a highly curated view of of your reality and especially on social media platforms the commercial incentives to how to optimize your algorithm Are very much driven by considerations of engagement, time spent, clicks, and not so much on encountering diversity of voices. What we also did in our research a lot actually argue that you can use diversity recommenders also to diversify choices. and recommend people content that they not have discovered yet or might maybe be interested in but do not know about or would like to have more in-depth information. So it really depends on what you optimize your recommender for, and we've done uh quite quite a bit of research and and tried to develop metrics. to help diversify recommendation algorithms. And can you talk to me more about how you sort of like those metrics, how do you measure for what's the most effective way of creating personalized news experiences with these recommendation systems. Like how can we kind of like design those recommendation systems that's actively contracting the biases while promoting diversity of perspectives, but also introducing our audience to those new content. Like how do we measure as a system how ethical we are with the deploying a personalized news experience? I think those are actually two questions. The first one is how do we actually optimize our recommenders and for what? And then the second one is how do we measure if it really works. In terms of how do we optimize systems, then we see that a lot of computer science approaches to diversity approach diversity as some factor of variance or distance or or serendipity. Whereas diversity in a normative sense is is actually a means to an end. So exposing people to a diversity of content can help make them more tolerant, have a broader perspective, a broader worldview, encounter voices they haven't encountered yet. So if you understand diversity in that way, you realize that you can optimize for different things. For example, not only for variety, but also what kind of alternative voices you expose someone to or that you have a diversity of for example political voices in your newsfeed So for example, uh something that we try to develop metrics for was the level of fragmentation. If you take all recommendations in an aggregate, to what extent is the overlap between stories shown to different users because that tells us a lot about the quality of the public debate. Another metric that we developed is about activation. Because in the end you want people to be exposed to a diversity of content to to activate them to participate in in politics and a public debate and and societal life. So The activation metrics would then measure to what extent the issued recommendation is aimed at inspiring a user to take action, for example because it says activating language in it And then we had another representation to what extent different recommendations provide the balance of different opinions and perspectives. and also the balance between the different opinions and perspectives, whether one is more or less or unduly represented than the others. So once you understand that diversity is a goal to increase the quality of the public debate. you can also start thinking differently about uh what to optimize your recommender for. And also when when you're talking about the recommendation system, I think one of the big ethical concerns over there for news media is also the lack of transparency and how to be more clear with audience about how algorithms are working. So what would you say are kind of like the mechanisms that should be there to enhance how decisions are made with these recommendation systems and how should we be auditing these systems? That is a huge question. Uh so transparency is something we hear often and uh the recent European law also requires social media uh recommenders to be more transparent about the parameters they use to recommend content Something that we found in our research is that being transparent alone does not necessarily trust increase trust of people. but they want also to have agency and that makes perfect sense, right? Because you inform people to enable them to exercise a choice Whether to go for this recommendation or for that recommendation or maybe rather not use it. And if you do not offer them the choice, or if you do not give them agency, transparency is meaningless. or it doesn't do much for you and your rights and and and your own agency. That I found really interesting. So being transparent about what parameter you use is very nice and good, but it starts only being really meaningful if you also give people a choice maybe between different parameters or recommendation logics Or remind them, that is something else we heard in our research, remind them from time to time about their profile and if that still represents what they're really interested in Because that is something that we also saw that a lot of people are very concerned about, you know, being labeled as this Early morning person who only drinks latte and listens to Taylor Swift on Spotify, right? Because that might be only one side of them and maybe in half a year they hate latte and and go for matcha and are not early morning persons and listen to I don't know Olivia Rodriguez uh instead of Taylor Swift And that was really a concern and I think we need to really think about how to offer recommenders more choice also for users. And and and then the counter argument is always okay, if you offer users more choice, that's great, but they don't use it. Which I don't find very convincing because first of all the fact that there is choice is already increasing your agency. And then it's also how you offer the choice You know, if you have to dive deep down into the system and then click five times and find then somewhere in the small print these, you know, one button that you need to press, of course nobody's going to exercise this choice. But if you make it easy and intuitive, then I think the likelihood of people exercising this choice is immediately much more increased. That's the optimist to me. I find that really a very useful perspective of looking at recommendation systems as also giving the users the choice, right? And then that's helping them. Because I'd know that I probably don't have the same music haste I did probably five years ago. And so if you're still having that same profile and the same type of I'm not doing the exact same activities I was doing five years ago and updating those systems by giving the users the choice, you're also building that transparency and making it more audience-centric. That's I think one of the key takeaways I'm getting with understanding how we can make these recommendation systems more more ethical in a way and build in transparency with how we're doing it. Yeah, there's some thinking about how to do that. So I I really believe that we that we can innovate more on that front. So there's an interesting project by Panopticum right now who try to think of how, you know, with easy design choices you could make it easier for people to express preferences that they're actually their own real preferences rather than inferred preferences that you know are the result of years of surveillance and um collecting data without people knowing. I think we can do more there. I think we can be more ambitious there in recommender design. And hopefully as we see a lot more personalization and news being more innovation in that front, we'll also adapt in the ethics and understanding the frameworks towards that. I also want us to kind of like talk about another big topic, which is Use AI Act, because that's talking about what the policy and the legal frameworks should look like in relation to AI. I'm currently in the US and there's nothing related. There's a lot of bills in Congress right now and but there's nothing substantial like how the EU has. And I think that's something to learn from and I want to understand that more. But I I was uh I was actually watching one of your talks that you did earlier this year at the Nordic AI Media Summit. And I really liked how you described the EU AI Act and I had this over here because you called it a story of a passion, of power, of intrigue, of traitors, conspirators, and heroes. And that completely changed the way I was looking at the EU AI Act with the way you described it. spoke about it. So I kind of want us to understand because a lot of listeners are global who are not just from the EU. What is the EU AI actually and the objectives and what are your perspectives on how well it is regulating AI in the EU right now. Yeah, thank you. And I still think it would make a great, great theme for a documentary. If there are any people listening out there that making documentaries, look into the making of the AI Act. It's it's amazing. It's a very ambitious piece of regulation with a goal of making AI tools. trustworthiness in the sense that we can use them and know that they will respect fundamental rights and and and public values like health and safety. So that's the act in a nutshell. And it tries to strike a balance between on the one hand enabling innovation and, you know, not not killing innovation by overregulation and on the other hand defining guardrails and identifying where rules really are necessary So I think that is a overall a good approach, right? It's a risk-based approach, which means it it really focuses on Yeah, a bit a bit the minimum standard. So where is AI really hurting us and what what to do about that. You could also think of a value-based approach where you rather think, well Where do we as a society want to get with AI? What are the values that we really want to see and what can we do to incentivize companies to go for them? But that's not a approach that the EU chose. So the EU defined a very area of risk areas. For example, education, immigration, use in critical infrastructures, and recently also in elections, actually. But And in these high-risk categories, the developers of the system have to comply with a range of legal obligations. Think of data quality, reporting obligations risk monitoring and mitigation obligations and human oversight, making human oversight. So it's it's mostly regulating the developers of the technology And the primary obligation for deployers is to follow the instructions of the developers and use them as instructed. but in certain situations also do fundamental rights impact assessments, which is another novelty in the act. And then there are specific rules about Gen A Gen AI and that was where the entire adventure started, because that was a big lobby circus. And how are you seeing the AI Act, the main impact and how it matters for media companies? The use of AI in the media is not on the list of high-risk AI. So that means journalistic AI is minimally regulated. Essentially, you have to be transparent if you use AI to create pictures and text. Unless you are a media organization under editorial oversight, then even this obligation doesn't apply to you. And there are some provisions about gender rative AI that might be relevant for the media. especially very large provider of generative AI systems, they need to do systemic risk monitoring. But that's only the very large, so essentially that's OpenAI and Gemini at the moment. And there are some rules about transparency of training data, which could be relevant for media organization, because we have of course this whole debate on To what extent can users, developers of large language models use all the content, for example, of media organizations without asking? And the AA Act uh says that developers have to be transparent about the kind of training data they use and make sure that media organizations can opt out from being used. for training. So there is the ability and possibility for media companies to opt out of the training data. It's that's encoded within the law of within the AI Act over there. That's uh encoded in copyright law and the AI Act has an obligation for developers of systems to make sure that actually right holders, not only media but more generally right holders can actually exercise this right. And does that apply to like the creative community as well? Of course. So it also it applies to the creative community that has that is protected under copyright law. And also just going back to kind of like the the transparency that's there around AI generated images, are you seeing that as a result of that, that's like a big antidote to like the deep fakes and the worry and the concerns that people have regarding AI generated images being circulated as like realistic images. That's the idea, that by telling people whether something is AI generated or not, uh they are able to assess the content. And for example, Meta has started doing so So I think they say something like this is AI generated or so. Yeah, they say made with AI, which Is a signal that something has to be made with AI. If you think about it, it also does not tell you awfully a lot. Because I mean very soon we all will have generative AI on our laptops and computers. We be uh generating and ideation and using text generators and and pictures So I think it will be much more common to use generative AI in in producing content. And that can also be perfectly credible and trustworthy content that has been checked, fact-checked, and and double checked and checked again. So simply the fact that something has been made with AI does not necessarily say that this is bad content. So I think it's a good first step But I also think it doesn't tell you as enough. So I don't think it will solve the deep fake issue. And the second issue topic uh the second reason why I think it does not solve the deep fake issue because it's very much a regulation of the willing So if you produce text and you are a responsible journalist and you label your content, that's very nice. But if you produce a deepfake to derail an election or dissuade people from voting, will you use, I mean, a label to show people that your deepfake has been faked? Probably not. And then how to find out And I think that is the real problem because it's it's very nice to be honest about you know using AI, but I think a lot of the real problem we need to be concerned about is those who are not willing to label it and how to find out about those. And I think that is very much also a technical challenge. And so how do we make the law actually work in practice and getting that to operate in a way, we would say, is the biggest challenge now. I think that is much more about enforcement of the law. How how we can we make sure that these rules are not only on paper but actually enforced? And that is, I think, partly also really a technical issue. Can we develop tools that help regulators to identify Deepfakes and also harmful deepfakes, right? Because there can be also perfectly innocent pictures. I mean when I make PowerPoint presentations, I I actually really like to use generative AI systems to rather that than use some, you know, off the shelf uh Adobe content. I I rather make my own pictures. So I wouldn't call this a deepfake, I mean, but it's synthetic, right? Yes. And it's being embedded, as you said, within your platforms. Microsoft's coming out with their AI laptop. If you go to any of Meta's products now and you go into their search bar, you're either searching or going in directly asking Meta's AI. And so it's gonna be embedded within our systems. And so how do we see that differentiation? Um differentiate between that becomes a bit of a challenge. I think we really need to ask deeper question about yeah, what is the epistemological truth or what what's why is it important to know whether something has been AI made or not And also maybe equally important is who has made it and is the entity that made it do they commit to critical checking and and debasing and or or do they simply use the tools to put out some content. So I think we need to uh dig deeper and ask more critical questions about authenticity and provenance and um what that really means in in a democratic society. What are your thoughts about what media companies should be doing right now? There's because of all of these discussions that is there around AI, what approach should we be taking? I think it's crucial to be transparent when you use AI. And again, uh we found in our research that that 60% of our respondents here in the Netherlands said that they would feel misled if something was generated by AI ad by that wouldn't be informed about it. So I think it's a sure way to trust lose the trust of the audience not to mention it, at least when it's journalistically irrelevant and audience facing. I mean I don't think you need to mention each time you use Google Translate or or Depot or Grammarly to check the grammar, right? But then there are applications where we see users are more concerned, like automated news anchors, uh automating content. where it does matter to them whether something has been produced. So let them know. But also let them know what you've done to make sure this is quality content and fact checked and so far. And what are your values? And what do you do to make sure there's is trustworthy content? And I think here's a really opportunity also for the media to distinguish themselves from social media platforms There was a recent report from the Reuters Institute about audience attitudes towards algorithms, and I found it very shocking actually to see that users trust that the news media use AI and algorithms responsibly is a bit in some countries on par with their trust in social media using that responsibly. So I think we really need to think of how to distinguish the media and make sure that that people know if I want trustworthy content, I go there because It is fact-checked, there's human oversight, someone has been testing the system, there was responsible procurement, they are transparent about it, they know what they're doing, and they do it for my good to inform me better and not to you know make me click more or fall down rabbit holes and and that is really opportunity also to to use it in a good way Yeah, and I find that that explanation you're talking about, that disting it's an opportunity for us to distinguish ourselves from social media companies by being more transparent and explaining more about how we are using AI. But I'm also a a question that I get often is how much do I need to tell and when do I need to tell that I'm using AI? And as you were saying, like if you are, for example, having an automated content and writing it completely, that AI is doing it from the beginning till the end, it's AI and just just a bit of home human oversight there. You mentioned that AI has been used to create it, but what about things like People are using it for headline generation, writing article summaries, and then more deeply to analyze documents and to analyze data and using ChatGPT to be able to talk to PDF documents and it's just it's so embedded now and it's getting embedded within journalistic workflows and to optimize our workflows How do we start telling? Because at the end of the day, it's everything goes through that human oversight and editors are approving everything, even though AI might be suggesting the headlines in summaries, a lot of the newsrooms are having that editorial checkpoint as the final step. So do we still need to be talking about all of those different things or having it in a one place where we are saying these are all of the ways in which we use AI? Or is that something that we're talking about with every article? to be more transparent with our audience. I think it's important to be transparent about the applications of AI where it really matters for the audience and the audience is concerned. For example, because it's directly generating content they read. Now if you use AI to do transcription, or translation, then you know, then then it's just a tool, then to to make your content better. So I personally don't think that there is needs to be explicit about that. The threshold is really reached once you getting closer to core journalistic functions like like producing and informing the audience. and communicating with the audience. There's an interesting initiative in the Nordics, the Nordic AI initiative, where they try to yeah, formulate more general principles what should be informed about and what should not be informed about and I found that actually quite a really good initiative and they say AI with significant journalistic impact requires transparency. Another thing they suggest is be very specific about the type of AI tool applied, so not simply made with AI, but made with which tool and to what end but also harmonize the industry's language around generative AI. And that is, I think, important because users will be more and more exposed to all kinds of labels which probably at some point also leads to label blindness and they say simply don't look. I wouldn't. I mean we are all just humans, right? And then something that really strikes me is how little we ask users about what kind of information they need. Because in the end they have to judge that, right? So next week will we do focus groups with users here in another end to to actually ask them what would you like to know and and what would help you to decide whether or not to trust this content. So again, including users in a loop uh sounds like a really good idea. That sounds interesting and I'm gonna be looking forward to the results of that focus group Because I think that's the big question and that we need to be asking what do users want? What do what does our audience want? And do they want to be informed every step of the way and then that's what we give them. If not, uh then then we can also decide and accordingly. I have found this like very fascinating just trying to understand all of the different like the ethical and the legal and points and especially deeply understanding the EU AI Act, Natalie. But with all of this I kind of like wanna I know we are at time almost, so I just wanna hear you've been talking about how you've been using AI to help you with your presentations and to get those images, but what are all of the different ways AI has been impacting you in your own personal life? Great question. My dark secret is that without Google Maps I probably would never arrive anywhere because my my sense of orientation is just dreadful. So I'm completely dependent on uh on smart navigation devices. So I think that is where my where it AI has really made an impact on me. And I wouldn't like to miss it for the world. And then I think, yes, as you say, I think it's um I I really love that with generative AI can explore new ways of of making yeah pictures and and creating content that are not a generic downloads uh from an archive uh types of content. So that that is fun. I don't have an echo on Alexa or something like that because I really worry about my privacy. So this is not getting into my room But if there is a media organization who would manage to develop a really good personalized recommendation system that knows when I need which kind of content, I probably would be even willing to pay for that. Interesting. Well, Natalie, this has been so insightful. So thank you so much for taking the time and joining me on Newsroom Robot. Thank you so much for all the great question. It was great talking to you. That was Natalie Helberger, a distinguished university professor of law and Digital Technology at the University of Amsterdam and co-founder of the AI, Media and Democracy Lab. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made popular. possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's SPAR grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Museroom Robots.