This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Opasna Gotham. She's a senior product manager at CNN where she leads the development of their content management system that delivers news to millions globally. She also serves as the board chair at the News Product Alliance, working to elevate product management practices across newsrooms worldwide In this episode, we explore CNN's thoughtful approach to AI integration. As Upasana shares her candid insights about identifying which problems are worth solving with AI, creating lasting collaboration between products. product and editorial teams and how she uses tools like ChatGPT to enhance her own product management work. Hi Apasla, welcome to Newsroom Robots. It's such a pleasure to have you here today. Hi Nikita, it is amazing to be here and an honor. Thank you for having me. Vasna, it's my honor. I'm so fascinated by the work you've been doing at CNN. And I really wanted to get into this conversation today. And before we get into chatting all about the fun stuff at AI Understanding really what your role at the intersection of editorial and technology looks like at CNN and I wanted to get a Bit more of an understanding as we kick off with all of this what the team looks like over there focused on AI and technology. And what's the impact of your role where you sit into this team? B I'm imagining it focuses a lot on orchestrating a lot of moving pieces across editorial and technology. So how would you describe the work that you've been doing? Orchestrating a lot of moving pieces. You nailed it. That's it. My official title is Senior Platform PM at CNN and I lead the development and evolution of Stellar, which is our content management platform, it supports two key stakeholder sets. One of them is of course enabling our editorial teams to create, edit, and publish content and program different content experiences across CNN, the website, the mobile app, and everywhere across domestic and international. And then our second stakeholder set, which is an interesting one and we don't really see a lot in news, is Stellar enables our product and engineering teams to build, test, and learn faster so we can release world-class product experiences. for our audiences. So when we say platform, what does that mean? Platform on the technology side includes our CMS, our content API, our digital asset management system, or the DAM, our rendering infrastructure. the distribution platform, the developer platform, the design system, multi-site support, and then all of our third-party integration. So think you know about things like analytics, for example. So like you said, my work involves orchestrating a complex ecosystem of tools, workflows, and components that need to meet this dual demand of speed and reliability, which are my two key metrics of success. A large part of my role is working with my stakeholders and users across the world. journalists who are focused on storytelling, editors who are leading and driving strategy, the developers who are solving technical challenges, and of course our product teams to ensure cross-functional alignment. I would also be remiss if I didn't mention my other role outside of CNN as board chair at the News Product Alliance, which is where I provide strategic oversight and operational direction for the organization. to elevate the discipline of product management across newsrooms, across the world, especially ones that are under-resourced and under under-represented. I'm sure we can get into that in a lot more detail. Going back to your other question is like how does the team structure at CNN work? It works very much like a tech company, and we're evolving more and more to adopt a lot of those similar organizational frameworks and structures. So our platform team is definitely like a core team. And then we have squads across these teams as well. So for example, the mobile team is a squad. The video and audio experience is a squad. We've got personalization. We've got machine learning data products. All of those are separate teams. The platform team, since we serve the internal customer, which is our journalists and our editors, we also function as consultants for those other squads because they're building features and products on our platform on Stellar. And so we work with them to validate requirements, to identify any gaps. to make sure we're on the same page about the problems that we're solving and to make sure that the execution is flawless. So there are core teams and lots of squads and each team has a product lead, a tech lead, and a design lead. I would say our current staff of product technology and design is about three fifty to four hundred people. And I think the way you've described it as a tech company and you're focusing a lot on speed and reliability. And one thing that's very interesting about About your role from all of our previous guests, you focus on the end user, which is the journalist for you and not the audience. And so a lot of the discussions and conversations we have around AI involves how are we thinking about journalists and building products to help them in efficiency and AI the conversation with AI focuses a lot on speed and that concept of productivity and efficiency. So how are you with all of the platforms that you're managing Thinking about which areas really hold a lot of promise for editorial efficiency. Yes, and keeping that speed and reliability in mind. I think the one area that has the most immense promise is workflow orchestration and optimization. This is automating mundane tasks, repetitive tasks, so journalists can focus on creativity, strategy, reporting. So, you know, AI powered tools can streamline basic things like content tagging or transcription or translation or making publishing processes and workflows faster and more efficient. It's really great because we have a scalable, flexible, powerful platform now. to work off of. And I will just talk about this a little bit later, I think, but you know, AI isn't going to take you ever from zero to one. You have to have a strong foundation to build upon. And Stellar has been that. You know, we spent years building, optimizing, and migrating onto Stellar. And now that our entire editorial operation is operating from it, we get to focus on scaling now. And the other key area outside of like workflow orchestration and optimization, I think, is is data integration. How can we integrate data directly into the editorial workflow? How can we surface data and important information for our editors? As they are in the editing experience in the platform. So that could look like something like a dashboard that shows how a story is performing, but also provides actionable insights such as suggesting better headlines or identifying high-performing story formats in real time. Our goal here is to equip journalists to make decisions that are both fast and informed by equipping them with this intel, with this data, with this information to make smart, fast decisions on the fly. And then the third area that holds the most promise for improving editorial efficiency through AI is content modularity. And this is like how do we reuse assets like videos, text blocks, images to help scale content creation across platforms. When we focus on those areas, we're able to align improvements with our key metric of success, which is be faster workflows, smarter insights, and scalable solutions to make sure like we're not just working efficiently, but we're also creating high impact in that short span of time. And you can imagine, I mean, we of course speed is is paramount in the journalism industry, but at the world's biggest breaking news organization, it's everything, right? but also balancing integrity with speed, accuracy with speed, reliability with speed. And so again, I think we'll get into this in more detail about deeply understanding user needs from an internal perspective. But I would say those three things, workflow optimization, data integration, and content modularity are the three biggest areas of opportunity I've seen inside and outside of CNN. And the data integration part, especially giving real time insights into how audience is behaving and interacting with your story so that that can power your future interactions and helping the editorial team that way. And also with the content modularity, I'm quite interested because as a broadcast media company as well as some that has a lot of a huge digital presence. Can you talk to me more about how you're thinking about the future with how you are modelizing all of these content formats to reach users and power them in all of these different streams of how media is reaching people. Yeah, I think the power of our platform is really the biggest unlock for us in streamlining. All of these different streams of information and data coming from the mobile app, the website, social media, TV, all of the different avenues in which CNN distributes content. One of the key stellar features of our platform, no pun intended, is that it's very modular in itself. And so when you're working in a very dynamic ecosystem like breaking news, That is one other way we have improved our editorial experience is by providing a platform and a UI that enables things like drag and drop. being able to see a WYSIWYG interface, which is what you see is what you get. So within the editing interface itself, it looks almost one-to-one as to what's going to be published. Things are very modular and blocks. They can be dragged and dropped from search into the page onto a draft page. So we have set up that foundation for success. for publishing, programming, creating content across different types of pages and page variants and distribution modes So now it's easier to scale it, but as we scale, it's actually streamlining as we scale our competency and the impact of the features, we're actually streamlining the information and the data into centralized spaces. And that's been a I think a challenge, you know, a again a industry wide challenge, especially when you move into bigger and bigger newsrooms, is that You have this massive collection of highly valuable information and data about your audiences, but also about other teams. What are other teams working on? What are their content strategies? What are their goals? And all because a lot of it overlaps. And it's like, how can we help internally our editors collaborate more efficiently? How can we help our writers work with producers to create more value driven, you know, assets across video. It's helping connect the dots and creating an integrated ecosystem. I'm very curious because I'm feeling like Stellar, the platform that you have created, as you're saying, is the foundation. to be able to power and withstand all of these technological disruptions that are going to come about so you can integrate it and keep on evolving with it. You've spoken a lot about the features of how it looks like. Just briefly into the development process of that, because I know re-cnn has recently had a whole revamp of the platform. If you can just talk a bit more of like what that was like to get to the platform that you have today. Yeah, that is one of the greatest milestones in my career. And it was a long journey. It was truly taking a product from zero to one. Our legacy platform was legacy, so you can imagine the problems that it had. It was becomes outdated. And we knew that we had to build something that would future proof us, that we would be able to seamlessly integrate No matter what happens from a technological standpoint. So again, I mentioned earlier, you know, that we're serving two users. We serve our internal customer, which is our journalist. We want to empower them and equip them with the tools and the information to create, edit, publish content, and program it. as f efficiently as possible across CNN. So you can imagine that the onboarding and training process was also a big part of this migration. Phase one was development and integrating feedback and user testing and refinement. Then there was a whole phase, almost a year of training and onboarding. And we started T and we went team by team by team. And you can imagine, you know, the homepage team versus the politics team versus the health team versus the entertainment team. They all have different needs. There are nuances to their needs. We don't build for nuances or edge cases, of course. However, we spent that dedicated time with them to ensure that What we built in our platform and our core feature set that we were launching with would at least give them parity. And even with parity, they were still able to do their job. significantly faster just because of the sheer speed that our new platform enables. And so it was a long, like I said, it was a long journey, but I feel like now that we have done it. It's live. We just ran a presidential election on it with zero critical incidents. So from a product and technology standpoint, it was smooth and clean and nearly seamless. So that confidence has been built over the span of a year of our editors, journalists, producers being on the platform where we know now that we can do anything with it. It is robust enough. It is strong enough. It is flexible enough for us to integrate, you know, anything or build upon and scale, of course. The way you're speaking about this, the platform development process, I think also has a lot of parallels to how you're thinking about AI right now of understanding what the your user needs, which is the journalists, and what their problems are in figuring out how to solve that and where AI fits in and where it doesn't. So how are you thinking through and identifying what are like the problem spaces that are even worth solving with AI when you're having all of these conversations? I think you partly started to answer what my answer is going to be. the problem spaces. I think about this how I think through any sort of problem space or product process, which is this kind of structured approach to problem solving. One is, and this is the most important piece, as you and I both know, deeply understanding user pain points. Not every inefficiency warrants an AI solution. And not and this is not just AI related. I think this is pro AI. especially now because it's shiny object syndrome around it. But in general, when it comes to product development, we tend to skip over the product discovery process and immediately start making assumptions to create a solution. So I begin by Talking to my users in depth, observing workflows, conducting interviews, identifying the bottlenecks or the blockers, Is this a problem about speed? Is it a problem about scalability? Is it a problem about accuracy? What problem are we trying to solve? And why is that problem a problem in the first place? And From there, it's about evaluating AI's strengths and trade-offs. AI is a like ideal for analyzing patterns at scale. It can accelerate decisions and of course Enabling personalization is everyone's favorite thing today. However, it still requires weighing trade-offs. What are the risks, complexities, unintended consequences? For example, will automating a task save time or introduce potential errors that impact trust? And like what other kind of friction could it potentially introduce? These are things that we're always thinking about. And as any role, especially in a product role, these are the questions you should be asking yourself. And these are the questions I think as a news industry we should be asking ourselves because There is this sometimes blind race to just adopt without understanding the problem that's actually being solved. And to go with that, the third part of the structure, in addition to understanding pain points and evaluating strengths and trade-offs, is What are your key metrics of success? And how do you align this problem and solution with your key metrics of success? I prioritize problems that directly improve my team's core outcomes, my platform's core outcomes, which are speed and accuracy. So if there's a solution that can measurably improve speed while also maintaining trust, while also maintaining accuracy, it's going to move to the top of the list. And also being able to quantify that. Is there a way to quantify how much how much of a factor speed is in it? So all of these things, and I think especially with AI, need to be very thoughtfully thought out and documented as well. And I think the heart of this process is clarity. The best problems to solve In journalism, in AI, anywhere, but especially to solve are those where AI's capabilities amplify what we do best. and ensure that there's measurable impact without compromising the values that are guiding the work or the vision of the product. The way you described it about speed and accuracy as your guiding measures of impact and being able to prioritize based on features that are able to help you reach those metrics of success really shows like it's kind of like the backbone of understanding what is an impactful initiative to get started with. But Of course it's not just all about the tools and building about the tools and adoption is a huge part, getting the buy-in from your stakeholders to even get into AI. Since your your users are journalists and editorial staff. There is a lot of fear and concern around AI. So how do you go about managing that and being able to foster collaboration with them? I think no matter what the dynamic is, but particularly in this one between between product and editorial, that collaboration starts with building trust through transparency and empathy. And that starts way before conversations about AI. Editorial teams, of course, and rightfully so, fear that AI might erode journalistic values or replace human judgment, take their jobs in a time where It's already really sensitive and difficult and challenging. So to counter this, I always position Once I have a very clear POV on what I want to solve a problem for, is I position AI as an enabler and not a replacement. So how can you demonstrate how AI can eliminate that friction, the bottlenecks, and free them to focus on high-value work? Show them what the trade-off is gonna be. And that's why I think having those key metrics of success is so important because otherwise you cannot quantify or qualify the value of this thing you're doing, right? And that doesn't matter if it's a journalist or the end consumer or a developer. Anytime you introduce AI into a workflow or a process. And again, especially in in this instance where my customers are journalists and AI is we're in like this love-hate relationship with it is How can you quantify and qualify the trade-off? So it's very clear to the end user that by adopting this This is the benefit you are going to receive. How is it going to make your life easier? What problem am I solving for you? How is this going to make you do your job better? That is all about communication. That is, and that comes back to understanding your users' pain points and needs, your key metrics of success and the problem that you're solving for them. I think like those are prerequisites you need to deeply. understand, define, and document before you even get to the point of like telling someone, hey, I'm building this thing and now you have to use it, especially a journalist. The good thing is that if you've been working with and building trust and transparency through empathy with your customers for a long time. this becomes easier, of course. And that is one thing that has definitely made my job more fulfilling and Easier is having really, really strong relationships with my editorial partners and stakeholders because I've taken them along with me for the ride to co-create and co-develop. so much of what we've built and they're like many PMs in and of themselves now. So, you know, if I come to the table with something like this at this point point because of those years of building trust, they trust that I am bringing something, you know, viable and relevant and valuable to the table. But at the same time, I never skimp on the context and the justification and the decision-making rationale in my POV. And I wanted to just highlight one other point is you know, involving editorial teams early in the process, whether they're your customer or not, and co-designing solutions and gathering feedback with them. It's like the ultimate product management hack in news. Like they need to be your sponsors, your advocates, your teammates. They need to be shouting from the rooftops. How amazing this thing is that you and your team built. That's your key metric of success. That's my key metric of success also. It's like How proudly will my editorial staff wear this platform on their forehead? Will they or will they not? And like, Part of that comes from trusting them that they also have a wealth of knowledge and information that will help us develop better solutions on the technology side. So prototyping, piloting tools with small, willing teams, you know, before scaling it also builds confidence. I also prioritize ongoing education and not in like a formal way. I mean infusing it into every Communication or mode of communication I have and explaining AI's limitations and capabilities so that they feel empowered. And not intimidated. I love that. I I totally agree with you. It should be editorial be part of this entire ride because when they're able to be just as excited as you are about AI and the new tools that makes your job easier. And it also comes about with a lot of ideas that they have once they understand the technology And w like one of the key things if the people who are getting started in this product role maybe, a lot of people are transitioning into this AI product role. What would you say would be the key questions that you should really ask? the editorial team to figure out how you can solve a problem or where that pain point really is. Absolutely. I think if you are just getting started creating strong communication loops with your stakeholders and your users early, consistently, and often is key. Again, it goes back to like establishing that trust because it takes time. Start from day one by identifying the people who have the power to make changes and influence decision making in the organization. Not all stakeholders are created equal, so it's your job to Do you know to talk to them, figure that out? When you're talking to them, I think there are two key smart, important questions to start with. Actually, I'm sorry, there's three. What's your biggest goal for you and your team? What's your biggest pain point? And three, how do you measure success? Because your job can be and should be to help them achieve those goals and hit those key metrics of success. So that's part of understanding user needs. So if you're you think of your editorial partners again, even if they're your official customer or not. They're going to be your partners and they need to be your most collaborative teammate. And vice versa, if you're on the editorial side, you're your product and technology partners too. But those three questions Start there and then pry into why behind all of them. Always ask why. There's so many layers of why. Don't make assumptions. Always challenge your assumptions. Otherwise You're gonna build the wrong product. If you haven't asked the correct questions, you end up bringing the wrong product that's not solving a pain point for them. And you've mentioned some great points over there. Collaboration is just such a powerful driver of innovation. And I imagine your role as the chair of the News Product Alliance as well, you are getting an even broader lens on the issues that the industry is facing and thinking about regarding AI and journalism. So from your industry-wide perspective, what are the greatest challenges you are seeing that newsrooms, all small and big, have been facing with AI? I of course can't speak for every single newsroom, but I will say that I love how these two roles so seamlessly complement one another. Because they allow me to think beyond like a single organization and focus on broader transformation of an industry and it lets me think tactically through like building a platform, but also strategically through how newsrooms and customers and stakeholders across the industry are thinking about the intersection of product and technology with journalism. And so Those challenges I bucket into these three categories. And one is something we just talked about. The greatest challenge is asking the right questions to solve the right problems. And this isn't just in journalism, it's all across tech and product. But especially it is a dire situation for journalism because of the eroding trust we've had in our industry over the past couple of years. And we don't have the ability, like other industries still, to attract top tech talent for many reasons. That's a whole nother conversation. But we have insanely smart, ambitious, passionate people here. And so teaching how to ask the right questions to solve the right problems is something you can learn and it's something you can teach. It's tempting to deploy AI for the sake of innovation, but real impact is defining the problem with clarity, like we've discussed. So like For example, are you a local newsroom trying to increase efficiency? Are you trying to improve content quality? Are you trying to enhance audience trust? Like a well-defined problem not only guides AI implementation, but it also ensures that those newsroom values and journalistic priorities and integrity remain intact. Along with asking the right questions to solve the right problems, you cannot solve every problem at once. And especially the smaller the newsroom is. Focus on the one big problem and break that problem down into smaller pieces. What is that North Star problem? You don't have the resources to try to be everywhere and everything for everyone. And I think there's a lot of great examples of local newsrooms who are doing this successfully. But I think this is again a great learning opportunity. And why I love the news product alliance is that we get to develop the resources and share the knowledge, you know, freely, literally and figuratively freely, so that we can equip those smaller or under-resourced newsrooms with this information that lives, you know, in big tech or larger newsrooms so that, you know, we can all innovate at the speed of news. So one is asking the right questions to solve the right problem is the biggest challenge. I'd say the second challenge is balancing speed with trust. We know that AI can accelerate content creation and curation, but it also very clearly and very easily amplifies misinformation if it's not carefully managed. So how do we create robust safeguards, guardrails, and ethical frameworks to make sure that those AI-driven tools operate with journalistic integrity. And that might look different in different newsrooms, but we have to do the work in order to to put some definition into that. And then lastly and definitely not least is Around the inequality of access to a lot of these AI tools and the development of the technology. You know, there's clearly an industry-wide gap. Again, the under-resourced newsrooms cannot adopt as quickly because maybe they don't have the resour like they literally don't have the resources, but also the knowledge or the information to know how to do it. Maybe the people are there and a lot of times they are. or they can be contracted out. But the inequality in access to the tools, I think that's something, you know, I think it's a interesting problem that we have at hand because we talk about the topic a lot of the intersection of AI technology and journalism, but how do we actually make it equitable from an access standpoint so that it's readily available for anyone to use and solve problems for their newsroom with. So yeah, I would say those three things. Asking right questions. to solve the right problem, balancing speed with trust, and then the inequality in access to AI tools. Yeah, having then the biggest one, making AI more equ equitable to people and the resources more equitable to newsrooms that maybe don't have the capacity to have a whole 300% technology team to focus on innovation over there. And you've been mentioning such important points and the challenges are so huge with AI. But I also am curious of how you are integrating tools within your own work to help you as a product manager. How have you I'm curious, have you been using any of these tools like ChatGPT to help you understand your customers and do your work as a product? Product manager. I have chat GPT is always open in my browser tab. I love it. I use it all the time. As a product manager with a very wide-reaching scope of work, I do, you know, always remind myself, of course, that AI isn't going to take you from zero to one. And by that I mean it is excellent at accelerating execution, providing great inspiration, and it helps me refine my ideas and scale my ideas. But the foundational work, the human work of identifying the right problems to solve, asking the right questions, setting the scale clear purpose-driven vision. Like you can't outsource that stuff to AI. And it's also if you do, it's very easily recognizable. And I think that's where the unique capabilities of a really highly skilled PM come into play. So I use AI all the time, regularly, to draft initial versions of documents, to synthesize large amounts of information. I also sometimes use it to explore alternative approaches to a problem. to translate highly technical documentation into a explain it to me like I'm five for an executive summary, or sometimes vice versa, but mostly from the technical down to the executive level, down whatever, across. it what whatever you know what I mean. But I think this is where AI really shines is in enhancing productivity, enabling rapid iteration. And You know, I it reduces the amount of time I spend on some of this repetitive or lower value stuff. But for work that involves deeply understanding context Things like navigating, you know, trade-offs and making strategic decisions. AI chat GPT is really a complement rather than a replacement. And it's a multiplier, not an initiator. I think if your direction is unclear or your problem poorly defined, there's no tool that can compensate for that. But if you're working with the strong foundation, a great strategy, clear metrics of success, and a very deep understanding of what your user needs. It's a force multiplier and it helps you move faster and with more precision. One other way I use it a lot is because I work with hundreds of stakeholders, partners users across the globe. I use it to reframe communication and tailor messages for diverse audiences, draft templates for operational processes. And yeah, I mean to me, like having an assistant that can say, use my tone and voice and make this digestible for XYZ people. It's invaluable. I mean like the time is my is not just my it is our most valuable asset. So you know to me that trade-off is is very, very clear. I also think that it ultimately allows me to operate at scale, but it doesn't replace the fundamental product management mindset that I have, which is Curiosity, clarity, ability to make really good decisions in constant chaos and ambiguity. And I think that's It's the real zero to one work and that will always be uniquely human. And it's helping you scale your capacity at work and Seems like it's part of your daily life right now. It is. And I will very openly admit, you know, last year at this time, I was just like whatever. This is just some weird trendy thing that's gonna bust. And after playing around with it, I very quickly saw that it amplifies the things that you're good at. So I always use this example of If you're a good writer or a good coder, it will make you an even better writer or an even better coder. But if you suck at writing and you're a bad coder, it will make you even worse. Yeah, it's a force multiplier, just as you said. It's helping you do your work that you're already good at, but expanding that at scale. Totally. And there's just one last question with all of your work in platform product management and the conversations we've had about how you've been building the CMS And that's CNN and all of these different technological products that you're building within the newsroom. Something that I've actually been thinking about has been what the future might look like in regards to CMSs like would we even have one like with AI and the multimodality that we're seeing of all of these like models. Are you thinking about that right now in terms of like how it would be changing the way in which we are even having our con managing content within a newsroom? I think that there's always going to be a need for it, but that need is going to evolve. And that's why I think having a platform that is really flexible and modular and fast is paramount because it allows you to adopt and adapt as user needs change. And like like I said, my user is a journalist and editor. Their needs are going to be different in a year and five years. But I am fully confident that ARPA platform that we have now that we have built can adapt to all of those changes. We already do it. We make changes and deploy to production. every single week. Like it's we're constantly shipping, testing, iterating. And I mentioned earlier, you know, that's the second this the other user we're serving. Our product managers and developers with Stellar enables us to build, test, and learn fast so we can release and iterate. quickly and also scale back if we need to. And so I think what we see when we think of a content management system You know, I think that visual and the interpretation and the definition might it's certainly going to evolve. It already has because when I see what we had before and what we have now It is night and day. It is like, you know, taking legacy Microsoft Word and putting it next to Google Docs. Like that is the comparison, right? So think about that. Think about how much that has changed. They are still the same product, like the same tool, right? But think about how different and advanced it has become from an efficiency, productivity. standpoint, you know, and partly because of AI too. We see all of the incredible enhancements, you know, in something as simple as Google Docs and and Microsoft Word. So, you know, I think it's just the evolution of product is and the product development. Process is cyclical. It's there's no finite beginning and end. The CMS is one of those products that is so robust that it will always be evolving. Exactly. And I think that the whole iteration of speed and reliability that you've kept on iterating upon is going to be part of that cyclical process to help us even further push the boundaries of what's possible with all of this advances that we're seeing with AI. Apasna, this has just been so insightful, really understanding how you are building the platform and the products that are powering the experiences that we are seeing and understanding a bit more about how to approach our editorial teams um to understand how we can work and collaborate with them on ai initiatives. So this has been just so insightful. Thank you so much for joining me on Newsroom Robots. You're welcome. Thank you so much for having me. That was Upasna Gotham, the senior product manager at CNN. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at Newsroom Robots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is News from Robots.