This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. With me today is Alessandro Albiani, the product lead for AI at the German newsroom Eppen Digital. He's been a fellow of the 2022 Journalism AI Fellowship Programme at the London School of Economics. And has also previously worked as the editorial coordinator at the Microsoft News Hub in Berlin. I'm excited to kick off a two-part episode with Alessandro this week. In part one, he shares his editor-centric approach to AI product development and discusses the range of generative AI products. His team has built for their newsroom. Hi Alessandro, welcome to Newsroom Robots. I've been looking forward to hearing all about the AI innovation you've been working on. Hi, Nikita. Thanks for having me. So Alessandro, you're a product manager over at IFIN Media and leading your team On AI editorial tools. And I remember when I first spoke to you, you described yourself as a journalist first, and then a tech enthusiast and that's the manner in which you say you approach your work as an AI product manager and you've previously been a fellow at the journalism AI program at the London School of Economics working on AI innovation over there as well. And I want to touch upon that later on in our conversation. But what I'm really interested in is that it and media, your part of this large German media corporation that's been having local news outlets. And I'm very interested to hear a lot about the AI innovation that's coming out of there. You've been on this AI journey for a while. So let's start off with giving us an overview, kind of what has IP and Media's AI journey been like so far? And how are you as the product manager structuring your team over there? Sure. IPEN is a tech company and a media company at the same time. We started experimenting with AI and generative AI very early on. Let me give you just two examples. For our internal academy, we developed a series of workshops To explain to our editors what AI is, what machine learning is, and natural language processing, how well AI tools have been used in journalism so far, and so on. And the very first The very first workshop in the series took place on the 29th of November 2022 This is exactly one day before the launch of ChatGPT. No, didn't I get the memo that ChatGPT was gonna change the entire world? Exactly. But we were already basically talking about AI and AI tools and responsible AI in journalism before the release of ChatGPT and and just one year before that, we already started with concrete Talking about concrete applications. At the very beginning, we we experiment was to edit newswire content and later on We started experimenting on a variety of use cases with several partners, including Alefalfa, a German company that develops its own LLMs. That means that when HGBT came out, we were basically, we had already collected a lot of experience on how to develop tools based on LLMs and most importantly we started building a knowledge base for our editors to empower them. and to make sure that they can better understand how AI tools work and what limitations and strengths. The AI team at IPN consists of ten people. And we have very diverse backgrounds. We have machine learning experts, natural language processing experts, and computer visions. uh computer people experts in mathematics and most importantly we have two editors and one of them is a former IPAN trainee who spent two years in several departments, politics and and so on. So The tasks of the two editors is not only develop prompts but test use cases from an editor. perspective. So very like editor-first approach that you have over there, then leading the charge. Exactly. So when it comes to developing AI tools, we follow an Editorial tools, we follow an editor-centric product development process, meaning that editors are involved in all stages of this process. And this is particularly important to me. As you already mentioned, I see myself as a journalist. I spent around seven years working for an Italian daily, La Stampa and writing about politics and economics, German politics and economics, and I see myself as as well as a product manager. And I think it's extremely important that we have more and more breach rules in this field because it helps developing it helps to develop a better understanding. For the needs and the pain points of our editors, and at the same time build products that bring real business value. On a personal note, I started getting interested in AI. in journalism in parallel with the release of GPT-3 back in 2020. And actual game changer for me was an opinion piece. that was published by The Guardian on its website called A Robot wrote this entire article, Are you scared now? Are you scared yet human? And back at the time I worked for Microsoft News. As editorial coordinator here in Berlin. And basically I worked for a dozen European editions of MSN as editorial coordinator. And it was around the time that Microsoft decided to fire. A lot of journalists who curated the MSN website and Edge browser and replaced them with an AI powered tu ration system. This is why I take it very seriously when I hear people talk about the risk and fear of being replaced by an AI system because basically I've been there. I've been in a situation where I had to tell my colleagues And please be aware of the fact I was not a Microsoft employee. I was employed by a vendor. I was in the situation of telling my colleagues, I'm sorry, we have to cancel your contract. And I've seen what happens when you replace human journalists with AI systems and have seen which kind of consequences this can have and for the people who are directly involved involved but also for the quality of the news coverage. That one was a really painful experience at the time. At the same time, it became a lesson in how not to implement AI in a newsroom. Yeah, it seems like you have had that firsthand experience of the fear that a lot of people are having right now. of corporations using AI to replace human journalists and you've seen the risks of making such a decision and I think That's why you always are talking about this like editor-first approach and then the way as a product manager you are keeping the value of journalism at the forefront and helping them with using AI to help them with their work. So I want to actually get into then the tools that you're building. You say you're building a lot of AI editorial tools. at a pin. What does that look like? How are you supplementing the value of journalism with AI? We have been working on different tools with different models. Let me give you just some examples, a couple of examples. So we have developed a prototyping platform. For a wide range of Gen AI tasks. So editors can, for example, transcribe interviews, summarize articles, rephrase articles in plain language, or generate video scripts. That can be later augmented with synthetic voices for AI-powered video explainers. We have built and integrated straight into our CMS. an LN powered system that gives editor suggestions for headlines and uh leads We have been working together with our journalists on a tool to give them suggestions on how to illustrate a new story because this is a usually a very time consuming task. We use text-to-image models to generate images And we do not create images. I think this is really important. And it was to us, it was extremely important from the beginning. We do not create images that could be mistaken for photos. So we only produce illustration style Pictures because they are instantly recognizable as AI generated pictures. We have been developing a system to self-evaluate the output of an LLM, meaning basically a system that is able to assist Journalists when it comes to evaluate the accuracy of a piece of content that has been edited with the out of an LLM. And that is basically for all of the three different AI tools that you were talking about, is that's a layer on top of that to evaluate the output of all of how the generative AI is performing in a way. Exactly. So the idea here is basically to set up metrics. And calculate a threshold. And if this threshold is mapped by the AI-generated output, then this output is presented to the editor. For final review. But if it's not met, what happens is we generate automatically a feedback based on our editors feedback they gave us uh during the uh development of this tool. And what happens, the system is able to reprompt itself in order to address those drawbacks or those errors. It can be, for example, you can set a metric like correctness, so factuality. or completeness, comprehensiveness, and so on. And this you can use the system for a bunch of different use cases, for uh bullet points, for example For summaries. So our curate is a bullet point or a series of bullet points compared to the original article? Or a summary compared to the original article? Does it contain information? And are not contained in the original article. So it's basically a system to help editors reviewing content, and this is a way We also to reduce the hallucination risk. And so this is because you have all of this training data basically of how your summaries have been previously, and then you generate on top of that new summaries and then compare and see how accurate is it, how concise is it, is it in line with what your newsroom has previously published as well. Exactly. And that's why it's important to involve editors at all stages of the development. So we can build something that is basically not developed top-down. but it's in line with their way they basically work and they judge a piece of content. So always from an editor's perspective. We have been fine-tuning task-specific large language models on our articles using open source models. And we recently launched an AI feature in our apps to allow readers to read articles in different formats. So we started with bullet points, but for example, later on you can. Let's assume you have just one minute before you have the next meeting you can generate bullet points but if you have a bit more time you can read a longer summary can even Translate this article into another language, or for example, translate it into plain language, simple language, and so on. So basically, the idea here is to give Readers the choice to pick the best format that fits into the basically the current reading situation And where does the human and the loop come into this kind of generation? Are all of these summaries and everything vetted before it goes out and users have the option to choose it? So basically we have been working a lot on this because we want to make sure that everything that is published Than is accurate, of course. I think when it comes to trust, we cannot stress enough how important trust in news media generally is, and particularly in the Genai era is. Human in the loop is and editor in the loop is one of the of our principles. uh that we have set up very early on because it was important to us uh to have very clear guardrails before we started basically developing AI tools and human interloop is one of them and responsible use of AI is one of them. And when we talk about responsible use, I talk about the fact that if something goes wrong And it can happen, unfortunately. Then it's not the algorithm's fault that something has been published, that it was false, but it's our own. We are accountable for that. And transparency is a key challenge to us. And transparency, when we talk about transparency, we mean both internal transparency and external transparency. Internal transparency means basically that we developed a series. I already mentioned the AI workshops. from our internal academy, but additional, we have developed additional formats to talk regularly with our editors and discuss potential Applications and external transparency means bylines. That was really important to us. to make the use of generative AI transparent for the readers. If we add it a piece of content using another LAM then you will find at the bottom of the article always a byline that makes clear this is an article. For example, if it's a summary or we reversion an article for a different platform, this article has been written by an editor and later added it with the use of general TVI. So you make that very clear that transparency and also educating readers in terms of how AI is being used. I also want to quickly jump into the training component that you're talking about. That's for your whole team is kind of educated about AI and especially now with generative AI, what does that training look like for them? When it comes to I think it's it's about empowering journalists. It's about giving them the opportunity To better understand what AI can do and what AI cannot do. We have all experienced since the release of ChatGPT a huge hype around LLMs. And we have all red on LinkedIn, X, and so on posts telling us here five prompts that will make you more productive. and so on. Well, I think it's our responsibility to help editors To develop a more realistic approach to LLMs. So when it comes to training editors, we decided to take a very broad approach. So we have our internal academy and I think this is really for me it was a game changer We introduced dedicated internship with the AI team. That means that everyone at Hipton uh no matter in which department the editors work can do a dedicated internship with my team. That means they spend two weeks working in the team basically for a wall sprint and they help that basically people working doing an internship with the team help us develop concrete applications and test applications. For example, if you can give us Feedback on how a concrete application is performing, give us ideas, we develop together ideas, we assess ideas that we have And the feedback we have been receiving at the end of these two weeks is extremely positive. And everyone doing an internship is getting a broader knowledge on how AI tools really work on limitations, especially of LLMs. They can give you a lot of different examples of limitations. Maybe we'll go And this is for us. It has been a great way to involve editors in the development. I think the second pillar of the strategy is of course having editors working in the team as an integral part of the team and cooperating daily with developers. So we have a cross-functional team. As I said, we have editors and developers at the same table. Third, We have established product discovery sessions, meaning that we visit editors, managing editors in different cities and we do deep dive interviews with them. Why? Because we want to better understand how they work. which kind of pain points they have, which kind of needs. We usually don't ask them, what do you want to have? Because this will be a bit tricky question, but we try to better understand how they work and later analyze their feedback so we have a better idea of their work day. and their pain points, and we address, we try to address those pain points and needs with AI powered tools. I love this three-pronged approach, especially that approach of where your editors get to do an internship with your team. And it's really an editor-first approach because they are then coming onto the table and explaining what their idea is, seeing how that actually can be implemented, whether it cannot be implemented, and it's more than just them being taught something through an academy, they are able to actually It's more hands-on and practical by having this two weeks where they come out of their normal day job and sit with the product team. and also are able to develop that product thinking mindset that your team's able to have, which is so cool. So have there been any key products that have come out of those sprint sessions Sure. We have several examples. Just let me mention just two of them. We have built an assistant, editorial assistant for our editors together with interns. And the original idea was brought to us by a managing editor. And basically the idea is, and in that case, it just told us, look the risk of editorial and let's say stylistical grammatical errors is becoming bigger and bigger, especially at weekends and in the evening, is there something we can do together? We validated this question and this challenge during a product discovery session Well editors told us exactly the same, especially in even in daily operations, it can be tricky to basically add it. Articles in line with our sky guide because of time pressure. And so we started developing ideas on how to address this challenge and together with interns. Due in their internship journalists doing their internship with the AI team, we basically started refining the tool. And testing it with basically four different newsrooms and departments. That's why it was so important to have interns coming from different departments. So of course we had the possibility to immediately test the accuracy of an editorial assistant for different use cases. And the second example is our transcription tool. It's a basic transcription tool plus because it started as a transcription tool, but based on the feedback we got from our editors We started basically implementing it or developing it. If you, for example, you transcribe an audio file that is originally in English, then you would like to have a translation into German of course, but you would like maybe you would like to have a summary of the most important information containing and transcript. Maybe you would like to have a summary in bullet points, or maybe you would like to know which are the strongest quotes contained in this one hour talk? So basically this all those features are based on feedback we got directly from the editors. So that's why it's an editor centering approach Because the editor we build four editors and together with them. So they're not just users. They are co-creator. So I'm also very curious because you have all of these different product ideas possibly coming about from editors and all of these deep dive interviews that you do with your newsroom teams to understand their processes. But how do you identify and prioritize which are the New AI product ideas or features that you want to take back and then work on with your team? We developed uh complex metrics that reflects principles We have been using a tip for a long time, for example, standardization. So when we analyze a potential tool, we always take into account whether it is scalable. or not, which means that we usually don't usually don't build tools for just one or two newsrooms or portals. So standardization. Standardization is key. In addition, we have sort of refined the framework that I first learned from Ariel. uh zeromick as a mentee in the first mentorship program of the news product alliance the impact effort metrics then feasibility plays a big role. Do we have the technical expertise to implement those tools and speak? Because we want to learn fast. And that's it's about building products that address editors need and business needs and create business value. And so it's this combination of this impact and effort metrics, along with a strong focus on the principles of your newsroom and how that can help. And where this AI product would fit into it. That's how you prioritize your features. Exactly. They ask to basically match the overall Company strategy. So we work with OKEs, for example, and we we use frameworks and we implement frameworks that were already there to make sure that those products are basically aligned with the goals, the overall goals of the company. That was the first part of my conversation with Alessandro Alviani, the product lead for AI at IPN Digital. Tune in to our next episode to hear how Alessandro's teen has been working on fine-tuning large language models and their approach to modeler journalism. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.