This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. This episode of Newsroom Robots is a recording of my Ask Me Anything session with the Online News Association. This is part of their AI and journalism initiative but I answered questions about how AI is transforming journalism, addressing ethical challenges, and exploring practical applications I'm excited to share this conversation with you. Here's the session. Hi everybody. It's great to see you. Thank you so much for joining us for today's session. I'm Megan Murphy. I'm the program director at the Online News Association. This session is part of ONA's AI and Journalism Initiative, which is aimed at supporting newsrooms in exploring artificial intelligence with ethics and integrity and focus. In this series, we're hosting practical trainings, thought-provoking discussions, community discussions, and practice sessions about AI for newsrooms And you could check out journalists. org slash AI for all the details there. Today we are here to have a An in-depth QA session with Nikita Roy. Nikita is a data scientist, a journalist, and a Harvard-recognized AI futurist. She's focused right now on AI literacy in the news industry. She's a Knight Fellow at the International Center for Journalists, and she's leading the AI Journalism Lab at CUNY's Craig Newmark School of Graduate School of Journalism. Nikita's also the host of the uh wonderful Newsroom Robots podcast that's incubated at the Harvard Innovation Labs. I'm a big fan of the of the show, and we're very excited that we're partnering with the Newsroom Robots podcast on this session today. The the discussion today will be aired on a future episode of the podcast. And we're thrilled about that. Nikita is I I've been joking with her lately that she's kind of everywhere right now in the AI space. If you're working in AI, you might have seen a lot of Nikita before. Uh she's actually hosted sessions with us at ONA before. She conducts workshops for newsrooms and universities, including The Economists, the Boston Globe, Stanford University, and the University of Toronto. And her insights have been featured on BBC, Neiman Lab, Quartz, Yahoo Finance, and CDC. And we're so excited to have you here with us today. Welcome, Nikita. Thanks for joining us. Thanks for having me, Megan. I'm really looking forward to this discussion and just getting to the time to answer all of your questions that you have. Me too. We got a lot of questions in advance. But Nikita and I were just kind of looking through them and we were like, oh my gosh. We have a lot to get through in this session. So we're gonna get started. We did take some questions in advance at registration, so we have a bunch of those to start with. But you're also welcome to unmute or ask questions throughout the sessions. I'm going to start us off with a couple of questions here, just because like I said, we have a lot of them, so we'll get started. All right. So you've had, like I mentioned earlier, you've had a lot of conversations with newsrooms about their AI use, both on your podcast and also through your trainings. And so I thought we'd start us off with Questions about use cases that you've seen through all of your research and work. This is something that we hear from the ONA community a lot that they they really kind of join these sessions to hear about what other people are doing and kind of get ideas um from how other newsrooms are handling these issues. So the first one here is how can we safely use AI to analyze audience analytics like page views and platform analytics. Yeah, I love that we're starting off with that question because I think a lot of when we we're going to be talking mainly about generative AI use cases in this session, and I think the potential of generative AI is so much that's there for up the operation side of the business and one area that I've been using it for a lot is for audience analytics and to analyze data. So One safe way to analyze it first of all is get a Chad GPT Teams account. Now that is different from the free version or a paid version of Chad GPT because in the Chad GPT teams they are saying that they do not train on your data. and it is more of an enterprise level. It is about ten dollars costlier than the regular ChatGPT paid version, but that's what what I would do. And I would start off with that and you can upload your Google Analytics files, your data files onto ChatGPT and start asking it questions in plain language. ChatGPT has this feature called code interpreter. It's like your data analysis buddy. And If you want to try it and you only have your free version of Chad GPT right now, take an open data set and upload that onto Chat GPT. As of recently They have made all of these features available for the free version of ChatGPT so you can try out and see what this data analysis looks like. I use it a lot for our podcast data. We have, if you're familiar with podcasting, data is spread across multiple different platforms and we have to take it and pull together a lot of these different data sets. And Chat GPT's data analysis does everything for us. So that's kind of like what the first step I will do because it ensures your privacy. And then you can always take this a step further now so this is just beyond you chatting with chat gpt you could also create zapier ai automation so that's something that I'm very excited about I use that a lot because you can create there are no code AI automations. So one thing that Zapier allows you to do is, for example, you can create it so that every week it's able to go and pull in your Google Analytics, and then from there it's able to send a prompt to Chat GPT that looks at that data. and then analyzes and produces a summary. So every every Monday morning before you your first thing in the morning you can schedule an email that gets you and summarizes how audience page views have been like in the past week. You can create as it as a Slack update maybe if you want it at the end of every day for every story. There are multiple ways in which you can do all of this and this is all with no code. And so I'm also actually gonna put a link down to what one of the AI powered automations that's there for is Zapier that I find very very helpful. So you can like create all of these like data analysis reports. So there's a lot of ways with which we can use right now generative AI to help you with a lot of the analytics task and making sense of audience data. Oh this is very cool. Thank you so much, Nikita. So next question from the pre-batch of questions that we got. Can you talk a little bit about How you recommend folks who are working in newsrooms go about training and kind of encouraging their colleagues to experiment with AI. A couple of people wrote in about things like How do you get people to try things out without fear? Can you talk a little bit about if there might be a component of a healthy culture around making errors that might come into play here that you can kind of cultivate as part of these discussions and and safety and guidelines around those mistakes. And as we know, people working in newsrooms are under a lot of pressure. There's a lot going on right now. There's a lot of competing priorities. So how do you think about creating space for AI experiments when everybody feels like there's so many other priorities to be juggling? A lot of that starts with AI literacy in a newsroom and that means dedicated time where It's teams of people, groups of people coming together and understanding AI and then having a time and place for experimentation. We are in a very experimental phase with this technology, and the way to harness it is by us understanding what what the technology is, what are the right and wrong use cases of this, and how we can apply it. So one newsroom that I'm really fond of the approach that they took regarding building AI literacy is Radio Canada. So they are a national public broadcaster, the the French counterpart here in Canada and Florent Dodens. Now he is the press leader at hugging face, but when he was at Radio Canada, an approach that he took first of all, was building these three hour foundational courses on AI's basics. And so he's been experimenting with AI. He's the director, he was the director of news gathering at Radio Canada at the time when he did that. So he was in charge of of the entire editorial operations and he would sign up. These were like short like like small group sessions, so like 20 people would sign up for these sessions, three hour courses where he would walk through what the technology is, demystify It makes make them all understand what generative AI was, get them to explore use cases and try out these tools. And then after that, they would do another session like prompt clinics. And these were dedicated experimentation workshops where they would bring together people From the editorial side of the newsroom, as well as technologists who have gone through that first round of training. So this was like their second place where they would now come and it was their AI playground. They would come together and talk about their different use cases that they had and generate what are the particular ways in which they think that pain points that particular person is having that they want to go and work on and they'll identify different tasks that maybe generative AI could help them out with That led to them having the time and space to experiment with it. And one very interesting thing that came out from that was this product idea. They have it's some it's if you go onto their app, it's called En Bref. you have the summary of the news of an article as like these slides on their app and journalists had to write that editors had to write that and they had to do all of that production process, then they came to the six prompt clinic and decided what if we try to get generative AI to help summarize and create these news as slides for us. And that's something that right now generative AI is helping power that and they were able to brainstorm that idea, think through it, experiment with it through these like prompt clinics that they were having these experimentation workshops. So That was a place where they were allowed to fail. They were allowed to experiment and they under guidance and under supervision because Florent was there. They had their team over there. They had their tech team as well to have this cross partnership between different teams. To think about solutions. And this is where I think it's really important because the editorial team has so much of insights, and we need to have that bridge to be able to communicate with the tech teams who will be building products and implementing these solutions. And this is a time in place for them to experiment with it. Apart from that, also I think this just needs to be a lot more transparency in the newsroom regarding how we are using and it's Okay to fail if you have guidelines regarding AI so you know that you are not going to be putting something straight to publish. For example, you are transparent with your editor. If you're a journalist and using it, you're transparent with your editor about how you used AI and it's not a taboo and it's not something that you are ashamed of or afraid of saying in your newsroom culture. So that's a whole culture change that we need to talk about. Recently somebody had come up to me and was saying that I use AI a lot, but I'm actually afraid to tell anybody in my team that I do because when nobody's talking about it and I'm just afraid that if I say they they wouldn't understand what I mean by that because they're not hearing anyone else is talking about AI. So now you're having these pockets of people who are playing around with AI And so another thing that I usually recommend for people is and for teams, if you're a small team, if you're like a large newsroom, there are so many use cases because everybody has their own set of experiences with like their expertise as well that they can then apply to AI and you can create this collection of use cases. So have something like just a Slack channel, which is an AI wins and AI fails. For example. And so if you're having like an AI wins, every time suddenly I tried out this particular task and AI worked for me, somebody can just like post it over there. And if it did not work, you put it in AI fields because For example, somebody was like, oh, I tried it to get it to help me with like research and it like made up links. Maybe somebody else on your team did not know that Chat GPT makes up links. But if you put that in your AI Fields tab, that's building knowledge within your team. And that's what we need to be focusing on right now. How do we build knowledge across our newsroom? And especially the people who are not experimenting with ChatGPT. Get them to see how it could be helpful, how these AI tools could be helpful, so that again you're building that shared institutional knowledge. And I think that's where that's what we need to be focusing on at this moment I love that. I love how you, you know, brought it back to AI literacy and and just a culture of discussion and experimentation and understanding together. We these tools are changing all the time. And we should be acknowledging that with our teams and talking to folks about it. And we we've actually taught you and I have talked about this Takita, so I'll just share with other people here today too. We have been, ONA has been looking at ways that we can kind of help facilitate teams to experiment and play with these tools together as well. And so we have this series of sessions. that we're calling mini labs that you know are just a chance for you to log on and try out different things in in a in a group setting like you would in your newsroom. Bring your teammates if you want, you know, bring your bring your boss, bring your colleagues and Or talk about the things that you learned and and chat together. Okay, so another question about, you know, policy and culture. Well, this is kind of a um another multi-prong question. So we we got a question from somebody who's working in a newsroom. that has been having a lot of discussion around ethical and copyright concerns around using generative AI, especially around visuals. Now, you know, when we're having this discussion in May 2024 Or sorry, it's June 2024 now. You know, I mean the tools have changed so much just in the past couple of months. We could be having a totally different discussion about this in November. of this same year. So this newsroom is is in the process of discussing whether or not journalists can use generative AI around visuals. And how? You know, is it okay for us to use it around illustrations, but not around anything that looks realistic that could possibly be mistaken for an actual photograph? You know, what's the line for our newsroom on that. And they were wondering if what insights you have on this issue and how other newsrooms you've worked with are are navigating this debate. And I think their approach to using AI-generated images and they're thinking through it very carefully and responsibly. Because there's a lot that comes into play, especially with AI generated images, we need to be able to do something that's still upholding their val our values as journalists. And so Creating superrealistic images if that's not been taken by a photojournalist, for example, that gets audience members to then not know if something was AI generated and would lead to trust issues. So it's very important to like approach this issue carefully. One way which I think they were they're talking about is like not using it for photorealistic. So a lot of newsrooms like Semaphore, for example, you can see that what they've been doing is making illustrations out of it. And that's one place where a lot of people are experimenting with Ippen Media, which is a newsroom in Germany, they actually have AI generation, visual AI image generation built into their CMS for their editors to if at some point in time they are not having a a picture for a particular story, but you need an image to go out, you need a hero hero image for that story to go out. It it's able to create illustrations for you and that the editor is able to prompt and uh manage so that's one way and being transparent about the use of ai that's what everyone's focusing on you need to be transparent about especially for image generation if ai was used and that's just a simple line of that I'm seeing people are using everywhere is that AI was used to help produce this. Um this was produced with the help of Adobe Firefly or with Midjourney, for example. So That's a really important part. And then coming to the whole copyright issue, there are a lot of concerns regarding that, especially with tools like Midjourney, because they are able to produce copyrighted images like you can r prompt it to produce a Disney character for example and that is a copyrighted image and one thing that I'm seeing that newsrooms are embedding within their AI ethics policies and the best example I have for that is the Guardian. What they did is they have created AI principles and they have outlined what are all of the different principles with which they want to apply approach the use of AI in the newsroom. And one of that was they said that it it's with respect for those who create and own content. So that was one of their principles. So that they are going to be using tools and models that they will evaluate evaluate that have considered key issues such as permissioning from the the owners of the content, so transparency, fair reward, and making sure that all of these Gen AI tools are also the genuine image generation tools that they use are respecting the work of the people who have created those original images. And so one example of that is the Adobe Firefly. They are using images Creative Common images. And so that's one example where Adobe Firefly is a more ethically sourced AI model than something like Midjourney. And so that's one that that's one way I'm seeing newsrooms decide which tool that they use. if it aligns with their ethical kind of standards. And an example of this was The Guardian that I really liked. So a lot of newsrooms that I'm seeing are talking about how how they're deciding on these AI generation tools if they have respect for the original creators, especially for image generation, because a copyright concern comes up a lot over there. Yeah, definitely a lot of considerations in terms of tools and and their policies and things like that. Somebody else asked about AI ethics codes you like at media organizations. Is there anything else that you've noticed in these ethics codes related to images or anything else that people should consider that you feel like is particularly helpful for journalists as they're navigating these issues? Yeah, so there are four components. I feel like four key components that I've been noticing across multiple AI ethics guidelines. So the first one is always in regards to transparency and disclosure. So how are You not only informing the public but also your internal staff about how AI is being used in the newsroom and processes for that. And you On top of that, maintaining lines for open communication within the teams, how are you building collective learning and looking at this policy again and again from time to time as the technology is changing so quickly. One thing that I really like of certain newsrooms that have taken the approach is creating AI principles versus AI guidelines, for example. And I think there's a difference with the principles. It's It's more of a why would we use AI approach like instead of like the details of how exactly, the yes or no use cases. Because the technology is changing so quickly, those AI ethics guidelines, you need to first have AI principles. that are guiding your use of AI within the newsroom and with that thinking more deeply about at this moment in time what are the good use cases of AI and what are the wrong use cases for you in your newsroom. That will constantly change as this technology gets better and better. If in a year's time hallucinations are not there anymore, like for example, you have these fact checking mechanisms that come about How would you be changing your newsroom guidelines? So these AI ethics policies are not something that's fixed and done. And so in the second most Important part component of a lot of these AI ethics policies that I'm seeing is related to accuracy and human oversight. Because at the moment, if you're using any generative AI tools There is no guarantee that they are completely free of any errors. And so how are you maintaining human involvement in these AI processes to ensure an ethical use of AI and establishing clear lines of accountability for AI use within the organization. So that's another important thing that I've been seeing. And then another key component is regarding privacy and data use. And I think that's really important to have in an AI ethics policy because as journalists you have a lot of confidential data and sensitive information and not only that from like your audience. So if you are building a personalized algorithm, for example, how are you protecting your users' data How are you protecting the interviews that your source is giving you? If you are going to be using a tool like Auto AI, have you checked their data privacy guidelines? Is this something that If it's a very confidential interview, the risk is high. Would you is there a possibility for you to run a transcription model locally on your computer so you're not sending that data out to anywhere else So those are all of the different different considerations that need to be taken into account in your thinking through that in your ethics policy. And then the fourth and final one is about purpose-driven use. A lot of the AI techs policies that I've seen are talking about using AI tools to enhance the journalistic process, not to replace that. And that's what should be like the guiding principle of how we are using AI and thinking through if we are using AI. Is it adapting to our newsroom's mission and ethical standards? And so it's really important, in my opinion, to be able to know the why we're using AI before even getting to the how we are using AI in the newsroom. I love that distinction of, you know, principles versus guidelines that it's a little, it's more flexible and it can kind of breathe and grow. It becomes more of a living document and not just a you know a list of rules. Exactly. And then people are able to also take a step back with the principles and understand for maybe there's a new technology that comes out tomorrow and how would you think through that. And so that's what the AI principles would be able to help you with. So there are a few examples as well I can throw out. WBUR has written their AI ethics guidelines and I think they have done a really good job. job of thinking through again what their principles are and how that's being applied in their newsroom. And there's another newsroom called BR the Bavarian Broadcasting in Germany. They're a public broadcaster and I find they have been using AI for a while and they had their ethics policy out in 2020. And so you can really see how they have also been adapting and looking at AI. That's great. I can't imagine how much those conversations have changed over four years. You know, that's a great example of an organization that's that's probably evolving and adapting. Um so that might be helpful for folks as well. Great. Well, I wanted to jump to understandably, a lot of people have been writing in for recommendations from you on tools. and you know specific recommendations. So I wanted to jump to some of those. Maybe we can kind of do a little rapid fire recommendations from Nikita. Let's do this one first. Do you have any recommended news sources that folks should follow for important AI news? What are you reading to keep up to date on the industry right now? Or listening to or watching? So there's so many newsletters out there at this moment and AI newsletters and I think I have reached the saturation point where I now know what I like and what gives me the most value out of it. And I think for media and AI and media especially, there's a newsletter, a LinkedIn newsletter called The Wayfinder by Ezra Eman. He is uh the director of strategy and innovation at the Dutch Public Broadcaster NPO. And he's somebody he was on my podcast. I really value his insights, and he is very It creates a curates a really well organized newsletter about everything that you need to know that happened over the week. So Ezra Eamon is one Also, there's a newsletter called The Rundown that just every day in five minutes tells me what the top news stories are in generative AI and the AI world specifically. So that's something as well. But I just subscribe to a lot of like follow a lot of the AI journalists as well on The Fortune and Bloomberg. They're doing really, really great work for more in-depth analysis. And so I follow a lot of, I would say people and journalists. Florent Dodens again, he is now the press lead at Hugging Face and he he puts together really insightful thoughts on LinkedIn and they have also created AI and journalism community on Hugging Face. And so Hugging Face is an open source AI company. And so it's different from the way open AI works, for example, where everything is it's a closed source model, so you don't have any insights into the operations of how a model is working, how it's being trained. trained versus in Hugging Face, it's a community. And so a lot of people are uploading like open source models over there that you can then you will know how they have been trained, what the data is, and they have created a journalist on Hugging Face community, which I think is something that would be very interesting for people in this group over here. Oh and Wonder Tools, of course. Jeremy Kaplan, my collaborator. We both work a lot together on AI literacy initiatives and he's also my collaborator on the Newsroom Robots Academy. Wonder Tools is my daily tool, but I feel like I speak to him a lot. So every session I every time I talk to him is a wonder tool session for me because I learned something new. But that's definitely a tool. If you want to look at what AI tools are out there, I highly recommend subscribing to Wonder Tools because every week he walks you through a particular tool and how different use cases and how he's using it. And that's the best part about it all He actually uses all of these tools and tests it out. So if you are looking for tool recommendations, that's the person I usually go to. We had a question in the chat about could you clarify and we see the distinction that you were talking about earlier in the in the Chat GPT subscription levels. He This is a quick one. And I know this just recently changed, so Can you just quickly outline the subscription levels for us? Yeah, so you have your free subscription model, free subscription plan, which currently you have access to a lot of the features that used to be paid. So if you if you have never tried out or you haven't tried out ChatGPT since since it came out a year ago, now's the time to go back to ChatGPT on the free version and play around with it. In the twenty dollar per month, that's your consumer level version that they have. They are training on data that you input. So all of your chat history is being trained on unless you go and disable it. But I I just don't think that's the best approach for newsrooms trying out chat GPT at the moment. You want to go and try out ChatGPT for teams because they are not training on any of your history and it is just more private and secure So that's $30 per month and that's the most expensive tier. Thank you for that clarification. Yeah, that privacy issue is really important. for our community. So good for people to understand that. So there's a question that came in, what are your top five essential tools for newsrooms beyond the basic? Like so they said beyond ChatGPT, beyond like the ones that everybody's heard of. What do you, if you had to pick five, you know, kind of top things for newsrooms to use, what would those be? So a lot of tools that I talk about, these are just tools that I use quite often that's helpful for me. So First ones would be a tool called Perplexity. Um, and I did a session for ONA as well last month. And I think perplexity is really good to just help you get a quick background on a particular information or a particular topic, it has a really good generative AI search experience. And I think as journalists it's really important for us to be playing around with that tool right now because you can see how the search landscape is changing because they go and scrape websites and then give you those summaries and they give you follow-up questions that you can keep on asking in their on their platform So perplexity is probably my uh favorite tool to be using for research purposes. There's also a really interesting tool called Wobby AI. So this would be probably for journalists and maybe larger newsrooms because of the price point. It's built for data journalism by data journalists. Actually, it's a Belgian data startup And what they are doing is they are connecting to all of the open data sets that are available in Europe especially because they're more focused on European newsrooms at the moment. And it's automatically every day it connects and as soon as a data set gets updated in a government portal it gets updated in Wabi and they automatically generate AI insights on top of that and you can now chat with your data so just think about chat gpt's code interpreter that i was talking about right at the beginning now you can do that in for a journalistic purpose That's there within Wobby, you can create visuals, create bar charts, and that automatically, then you can generate it into like a data wrapper chart, for example, and then input that into your story. And this is really democratizing the access to data, especially for smaller newsrooms and like newsrooms that would not have been able to constantly get these insights because there's only one data journalist or two reader journalists in your team and you're overwhelming them. This is a really good tool. Wobby AI. My third tool would be a tool called Opus Clip. And I find those very interesting because you are able to take a long form video So it can be a YouTube video, you can upload it, it can be a zoom recording like this one, and you're able to repurpose it into shorts. So it will convert it into like 20 different short clips that could be posted as TikTok, Instagram reels, YouTube shorts, whatever all of those short form videos you have you can repurpose your long videos. So think about the number of long form content that we put out on YouTube, this webinar for example, and there are such interesting short bites that could be posted. on social media now and opus clip helps you with that. What's interesting about them is they also like rank all of the different clips that are there all the way from number one to number 25 for example and they'll tell you what's interesting about each clip and how that clip could be improved. So I find it's really good for like also feedback to understand how to make something much more engaging and how to make a clip more engaging. And then we also have a lot of newsrooms use this as well because local newsrooms want to experiment with AI and one of the best use cases editorially are for headline suggestions and SEO metadata. And so a tool that I use and a lot of newsrooms use is called SEO. It's a Slack-based free AI tool and it was actually built by a fellow at the Reynolds Journalism Institute. And so because of that, it's free because as part of the RGI's mission. It's free and over 400 local newsrooms use that Slack tool. So it's really effective, uh especially because it's not just English. I believe it's more than eight languages that Yes CEO is able to generate headline suggestions and SEO metadata for. So that's one thing that is very, very helpful for users. And then finally, I have to say Google's pinpoint. This is actually a tool that has been there for a long time, but they're also having a lot of AI. So you can like, for example search through thousands of documents. So a lot of investigative journalists actually use Google's pinpoint because you can now apply AI to a specific doc collection and search through all of those like thousands of documents. It's not just like PDF files, for example, you can do everything from like handwritten documents, images, emails, PDFs, and you can extract text from handwritten documents as well. And so that's really useful. And also you can like apply AI for transcription and transcribe all of your audio and video files and then search through that. So there's a lot of options that you have for Google's pinpoint. So those would be like my five like tools right now that I'm experimenting with a lot and playing around with that I find very useful Yeah, that's a great list. Thanks, Nikita. I'm sure it's hard. There's just so much out there right now. I'm probably forgetting some tool right now that I use quite often as well, but here's what comes to mind. Maybe our next questions will we'll get into that a little bit more too. And we have so many training sessions and tool sessions here at ONA on all different AI use cases. And so, you know, when folks join those sessions. You get to hear a lot about different tools too. So that's really that's really helpful for you to narrow it down a little bit. You talked about YesEo in your last answer. We did get a question specifically about AI headline writing tools. Are there any more that you'd recommend in that category? Another tool I would say is NOTA. That is again, I forgot about NOTA. That's something that a lot of local newsrooms have been finding very useful for because it's bringing a lot of these AI tools to publishers who would not have been able to create it because you don't have the tech team to so a lot of the resources that they do is like you can like summarize text over there as well in Noda you are able to write headlines and get SEO content Create social media posts out of there. One thing that is very interesting with Noda is converting an article into a video. And that's what Noda is able to do. Cre You're just paste in your article and you're again be able to create those quick Instagram reels or shorts and you can edit it but it's basically s taken away all of those like multiple steps that you need to do. So Noda would be another tool. This is paid So in comparison to like E SEO, this one is paid, but it gives you a lot more features to help you with like SEO content and not just SEO, but like Just like helping you write your newsletter, for example, as well to summarize an article. It does a lot more things. Awesome. Those are great recommendations. Yeah, we have been uh experimenting with that uh a little bit here at ONA too. That's very fun. Next question, also in the tools category. Do you have favorite browser extensions that use AI right within your browser that you can recommend? So Perplexity actually also has a web browser. plugin that I use and it has more features if you're using the perplexity plugin because you can go onto a site and it'll summarize it for you for example and you can like chat with chat about that particular topic across an entire domain if you want. So you can take your search a step further with Perplexity through its plugin. So I use Perplexity. And so also for me, instead of like going to another tab and going to Google, you can just open perplexity and start asking a question right where you are. So I find it really useful. I use another tool that's called natural reader and so what that does is I like to a lot of the times I especially for text and articles I like to listen to the voice and like I listen I like it to be not just like reading because I'm constantly on my computer and I like to just like do other things and just hear what the news is or hear hear an article instead of having to read it. And so natural reader is a tool that would read anything on your website. If you're reading a PDF document, for example, it will do that and it's all with very human like sounding voices, much better uh voices, not the old robotic voices. So that's another tool that I use. But there are also a lot of like other tools like you can use for example gpt and claude within your Google Docs and within your Google Sheets. So there is like Claude Claude for Sheets and Cloud for Docs and GPT for docs. These are all Google Doc plugins that you can use. So you can create prompts within your Google Docs or Google Sheets and prompt it. So instead of having to go to another website, if If you're building out, say, a workflow, for example, that's something that you can build in with those plugins as well. Awesome. Thank you. That's some good recommendations. I kind of an overall question about tools. Can can you talk a little bit about how you recommend organizations think about evaluating vendors and tools that they could use? What should they be looking out for and understanding as they're considering all these many amazing options? Yeah, a lot of the time I really start with understanding who the founding team is and who is who's building it and why they're building it and then really drilling down into what the workflows are and how it is being built. And I think this is where it's really useful For you to understand AI and understand how generative AI products especially are built, because a lot of the times what I try to do is reverse engineer the process and see if that is matching with what they're saying. So if somebody's saying that they have fine-tuned a model. What do they mean by that? Is that just them taking your data and creating a bot on top of that? Are they actually taking examples of data from you and then creating a model that is bespoke and specific to your tone and voice. So a lot of those are like ways in which people are trying to sell you products and playing around with the different different jargons and words. And so that's why I think it's like very important for us to understand what exactly is happening behind the scenes. The next thing that I really always look at is privacy policy and looking at their how they are what they're doing with the data. And that's very important for us to keep in mind. Even just for other apps, like for example, Slack now is using your messages to train their AI models and you have to go and opt out of it if you don't want to be doing that. So Like there are all of these, like it's not just vendors coming to you, it's tools that you're already using that you need to be constantly looking at their privacy policy, looking at what their data usage policy is and how they're using your data. So that's one of the main things that I always look at is how how are they using the data that they're giving us? Who are other clients of theirs? And that's really important sometimes for me is like looking at who are other people who are using it and like sometimes just like having a conversation with like other people who have used that particular tool to see how they have found it and then seeing if it meets a need for your newsroom. That's That's the biggest thing I would say because there are so many tools and people selling you all of these things right now. And if you are trying it out and it's not fitting your particular need in the newsroom right now, it's probably not the right tool for you and on top of that a lot of these tools if if they have a huge learning curve that's where they lose me because if there's a huge learning curve and it's not too sticky to try it out that's that's one place where I'm not going to follow through. And if it's not able to be built into my workflow, again, that's something that that's that's that that's part of the adoption. And so your team is not going to be it. adopting it because it's not a part of their workflow and they have to like completely go to a completely different site and they wouldn't do that. So you have to keep all that in mind. How is your team going to be reacting to that particular tool Yeah, that's a great list to start with, especially around how, you know, how is the team going to be able to use it and are they going to be able to use it? A couple more questions from the chat. How heavily do the results of the tools you've listed here have to be edited and embedded? I would say any generative AI tool that I'm using right now, it It has to be edited and it has to be wetted and I wouldn't be taking anything straight to publish. And the way I work I think of using AI tools is this term that's thrown out everywhere is my co-pilot I expect them to take me to a particular level with which after that I add in my own insights and my own knowledge. And again, it is uh it would be my thought process and insights that is powering the first step of those tools. So if I'm using ChatGPT to you write my headline for example and then I I that that's one thing that I use to for us to write our episode titles thinking through different different episode titles that first of all Chat GPT would come through. But often after I finish off an interview, I already and before that, I already have an idea of what I want to be focusing on and thinking of what particular insights or takeaways I hope listeners would be getting from it and so I'm already having an idea of what I would want a headline to look like. And if you are an if you have been working in this space for a while, you already are able to perform at a level better than these GPT models. And this is just to help you brainstorm with it. So that's one way in which I see them as co-pilot so everything needs to be edited but you that's that's where your human input is coming but they are getting you to a particular level. That's a good perspective. Thank you. Do you have any recommendations for AI tools related to specific beats? Like the example, this is for a question from the chat, was medical research. Yes. And for medical research especially, I think a tool called illicit. com is something that is very, very useful. because there's also a similar tool to this it's called consensus so consensus. app these two tools are basically ai search engines for research papers. So if you are especially for covering health, then you're looking at a lot of like all of these scholarly studies that are coming out. You can go and do a search on illicit, for example, talking specifically about the effects of long-term COVID, and it will pull out eight different research papers and now you can filter through specifically if you're looking for a particular time frame and then the next step is it at a glance it's pulling out the summary of the paper, the methodology used, the outcomes, what their conclusions were. So all of this on at a glance you can see all of these different different uh the abstract's all been generated by AI based on what the research paper is and at a glance I'm able to understand what this papers cover, if this particular paper is meeting my criteria regarding the methodology or not, and then I want to explore that further. So that's one way in which you can use it. And you can chat with these scholarly papers. So this is what I think is very, very helpful for anyone who is looking at scholarly articles regularly Both consensus and illicit are really good tools. I just prefer illicit because I just like the way in which their UI is and I find their experience much better. Another question, this is from Jesspreet in the chat. This is a totally different topic, getting out of the tools, the tools section. So Jess Preet was asking How do you see the publishers who are rushing to sign deals with AI firms? There are folks in the industry, you know, who are suggesting that big tech never really valued news media. How do you think publishers can get a fair value out of these deals? And how can technology help publishers in creating products that could create longer-term value for the publishers and help diversify revenue streams? Yeah, and I think it's interesting to see the discussion and the debate around whether to license with them. don't partner with them, sue them at this moment, different different ways in which people are thinking through it. I would actually quote Nick Thompson, who is the CEO of The Atlantic, which was one of the publishers that very recently have announced a partnership with OpenAI. When that came out, I remember seeing on his LinkedIn that he he does these Every day he does this like the most interesting thing in tech videos. So if that's one person as well, I would follow. Um if you are not already, because he does these quick videos. But he he actually I would say really explained the perspective of a publisher in this moment in time and why they're signing deals right now. And basically he said that there was a lot of fear in the media industry and about partnering with tech platforms and that's valid. But he's convinced about that these deals could be beneficial and I and there there is a perspective in which that could be beneficial and that's because in his perspective it's not about avoiding the tech platforms but it's about making the right deals and making the right bets with the particular tech companies that could help them understand the tech platforms be much closer and understand what's happening because at the end of the day we have to also understand that it is the tech companies that are controlling how these models are being developed what's happening, they are controlling the distribution channels to the audience as well. And unless we are building our own tech and at this moment in time the whole the whole conversation and from what I'm seeing publishers are doing is being able to harness upon the tech industry's insights and expertise to be able to leverage that in news because what is missing in the news industry right now is tech expertise and that's something that the tech companies are having and that's one way to understand why people are rushing towards these deals, it's because they are providing them based on what we're seeing in these deals. with the tech expertise, with credits to play around with it. All of this costs a lot of money. And if they're able to get into these partnerships, that's one way to understand why they are partnering with the tech platforms. Thank you so much I think we have one closing question from my colleague Carol, but before we do that, I want to do just a little bit of a couple of plugs for upcoming opportunities as we're coming to the top of the hour here. And also answer a question in the chat about uh Nikita's podcast. Maybe you can share that, Nikita, as we go. So I'm really excited to share that Nikita's working with the ONA team on a series of case studies about AI uses. We're going to be looking at a variety of different newsrooms and we're going to be releasing those through a limited run newsletter. So we can't wait to share it with you. Please stay tuned over the next couple of weeks for more on that. But we're we're thrilled to share more case. cities and examples with folks. And as I mentioned at the top, this session is part of a series OA is hosting on AI. We've got tons of practical training, experimental play sessions, idea sharing discussions. Nikita's coming back to do a free session with us. on how AI can help you with grant writing on July 17th, as I mentioned. And you can learn more and sign up at journalists. org slash AI. And if you like today's conversation, we hope you'll join us at ONA24 to continue nerding out over AI and all its many impacts on journalism with a lot more digital media happening sprinkled in. Early bird pricing goes until June 13th, so check it out at ona24. journalist. org And then Nikita, you wanted to share just a plug for your your upcoming program too, right? Yeah, and we have also expanded and launched News Drum Robots Academy with my collaborator, Jeremy Kaplan, who runs the AI Wonder Tools newsletter as well as the director he's the Director of Teaching and Learning at the City University of New York. And so I'm just sending putting it in the chat over here. We've both launched a way to if you have if you are starting to play around with chat gpt and figuring out what different use cases are here is a 101 to get through the different Tools and ways to understand how uh Chat GPT specifically can help you in your task. Carol, do you wanna unmute us? Sure. Thanks so much. Nikita, so on the past on the podcast, you're usually the one asking people questions about their work. So it's really fun to have you on the other side today. Yeah, this has been fun. Yeah, as as the conversation has been going on, I started thinking about one that Zooms out from everything about tools a bit. So what is a question you wish more people would ask you and be curious about? when it comes to using AI in newsrooms. That others would ask me about using AI in newsroom. That's interesting. And I think uh never been asked that question, so not about the tools. We we've we've gone so deep on the tools. So yeah, just something that was coming to mind as we were going through through that that bit of the conversation I think there's one area that I really hope that as an industry we need to have a lot of conversation about and that I hope we start talking about. is how the future of work is going to change and how is the future of the newsroom changing. And it's that's I think one important aspect to be talking about because all of these AI tools that we're talking about is great and I talk about how we can be a one-to-two person newsroom operating as a five person and being able to cover. But what does that mean for the future of work and roles within our newsrooms that is going to be impacted, that are going to be impacted by these particular tools. So I think that's important for us, I think as an industry as a whole, to be talking about the impact. of having AI in the newsroom on on the different roles. How do we as an industry upskill an entire workforce. At the end of the day, this is a problem about upskilling an entire workforce to prepare for this revolution. And to be honest, I don't think we are seeing as much. Like ONA has been taking part and helping in these AI literacy CUNY at CUNY we are doing that, but these are still at the end of the day in my opinion still small and it's it's talking about how are journalists and journalism students who are coming to school right now and studying What are they preparing for? What's the future that they are preparing for? What are the roles that they're going to be preparing for? And how are different different jobs going to be changing with AI? And then even broader from that, is how are we going to be preparing news and what the ecosystem of news is going to look like in five to ten years right now and what do we need to do right now to prepare for that. And when I mean about that, we talk about AI, but the basics and building blocks of AI is data and it's about data infrastructure. So one thing that you need to be focusing on right now is making sure that you have good data in your newsroom. How do you build a good data infrastructure within your newsroom In order to power all of these generative AI models in the future, how is news going to be looking like and looking different so that we're able to power generative AI models to create user experiences and new user experiences for news. That's all a data issue and that's one thing that I hope we talk a lot about in terms of like what should be doing right now to prepare good data within our and collect good data within our newsroom because most newsrooms that I talk to are all still dealing with data being fragmented in different different sources, people not having access to data or not having access to clean data. There's so many issues with that. So how do we start thinking about how the data how do we build a data infrastructure to power AI experience? and these models to help us in the future. That was a really interesting question, Carol. Appreciate that. I appreciate you entertaining it and I kind of put you on this on the spot at the top of the hour, but thank you so much. I'll Take it back to Megan. It was great to have that question. I love that question too. And I love the answer. I think, you know, we're coming up on this huge change in our industry that we're already in. This huge change in our industry that I it it's sort of like 25 years ago with the advent of the internet and and all of its impacts on journalism and We need to be reskilling and and rethinking how this is changing and what we do in every way. So I appreciate that. And thank you so much again, Nikita, for your time today and your energy and spending a couple of extra minutes with us here today to chat all things AI. And thank you all so much for joining and for your thoughtful questions We I just love this discussion and hope you all have a great rest of your day. Thanks for having me and thank you all for your participation. That was the recording of my Ask Me Anything session with the Online News Association. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots Podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy, and this This is Newsroom Robots.