This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. In today's episode, I'm speaking with veteran lawmaker, Congresswoman Anna Escherou, a member of the U. S. House of Representatives from California's 16th Congressional District. home to Silicon Valley, a region that needs little introduction to anyone following tech news. But Congresswoman Eschew's influence extends Far beyond Silicon Valley. As co-chair of the US Congressional AI Caucus, she's been instrumental in shaping US policy on AI. Policy that Given America's leadership in global tech, has ripple effects worldwide. In 2023, Congresswoman Eschu co-introduced the Create AI Act A bipartisan effort to expand access to AI research resources. Perhaps most relevant to us in the news industry is the AI Foundation Model Transparency Act she co-introduced. This legislation aims to promote transparency in AI foundation models, the very models that are transforming the news industry today. Congresswoman Eshu has been a leading voice about technology and its implications, with over three decades of experience in the U. S. House of Representatives. She has witnessed numerous technological revolutions. Her long-standing engagement with tech policy gives her. a unique perspective on the current AI revolution. So, how do we harness the power of AI while safeguarding our society? How do we ensure transparency in a world of black box algorithms? And how do we prepare for a future where jobs as we know them might disappear? These are the questions we'll be exploring today But first, let's start with one of the biggest issues facing the news industry. I asked Congresswoman Eshu about the growing concern in the news industry regarding AI companies training their models on news content without compensation and how this practice is impacting both the business of journalism and our broader information ecosystem. Quick questions mainly focused related with the news industry and AI right now. How are you seeing the evolution of AI and the impact that it's going to be having on the news industry you see the New York Times, a lot of the news companies worried about AI and its impact on journalists. What are your thoughts and how is Congress thinking about how it's going to be impacting our information ecosystem? Well, because the system is is all about content and and data Who owns it? Who owns it? If, you know, huge swaths and there are huge swaths of uh of uh content that are swept up to be used in whatever way. I think that the laws surrounding use come into play and it's a it's a very real one and we we saw during the uh the strikes in uh in Hollywood on the part of uh writers how strongly they felt so While I'm not on the uh judiciary committee, that's not my my uh day-to-day wheelhouse, that needs to be addressed. It's a uh that's the writer's product is something that they've produced. You know, that's their gold. Congresswoman Eshu brings up a crucial point here. The question of ownership. In an age where AI can scrape and repurpose content at an unprecedented scale, who really owns the information? It's a question that's not just academic, it's at the heart of recent legal battles in the news industry. But the challenges don't stop there. I asked her about another pressing concern, the potential for AI to amplify misinformation, especially given the issues we've already seen. with social media platforms. In in relation to all of this, we've also seen the impact with social media companies when um information is distributed through them. We are now having generative AI systems having these search experiences, scraping that information and producing its summaries. But that also means that Bad actors are having that information accidentally scraped up and misinformation being spread at a large scale. How are you seeing that impacting Well it's it's it's one of the great challenges that we have today. It's not only the inequities that are already built into our system that we have yet to address, it's all the misinformation as well. So good data in is good data out. Bad data in is bad data out. So the legislation that I have addresses that. And I, you know, fingers crossed, I hope that the Congress will uh will end up uh sending that legislation to the President to have it be signed into law because it does address it. This garbage in, garbage out principle is something we've heard about before in tech circles. But with generative AI, the stakes are higher than ever before. Bad information doesn't just stay bad, it can be amplified and spread at a scale we've never seen before. So what's been done about it? Congresswoman Eshu mentioned legislation she's working on, so I asked her to elaborate. Could you give a brief description on like what that legislation looks like right now? Well, first of all, it really is divided into uh three bills. One of them deals with our national security, our biosecurity. We have to have the expert agency that advises the Congress about the challenges coming from our adversaries. And that. And the Create Act, which is I think moving nicely right now. I hope it'll keep moving. It's a Congress that really is not producing very much. That really democratizes the AI. In the legislation that really deals with deception, what's real, what's fake, that's where the nexus is on that. for misinformation, for disinformation, for all of those challenges that we're dealing with now because of our social media platforms. So It's one of the top concerns of uh of constituents. That's what they ask me about all the time. And uh they worry about it. They worry about what their children are exposed to, but themselves as well, because they don't know real from fake. And they deserve to know. They deserve to be protected That legislation is bipartisan. It is bicameral. And so we're addressing it, but it needs to uh the legislation needs to move. Congresswoman Eschew's legislation tackles three key areas, national security, democratizing AI, and addressing deception. But legislation is just one piece of the puzzle. I asked Congresswoman Eshu about the need for transparency from tech companies developing AI. And how are you seeing transparency being at the forefront? with these technology companies. We don't know anything about kind of like that black box AI models right now. And so how are you seeing kind of the evolution of the way in which we get to know understandable about how these AI companies are putting forth that information in front of us. Well I think that the legislation that uh really democratizes AI is absolutely essential. And built into that obviously is transparency. Transparency is the antiseptic. It's the antiseptic for uh for the work that we do is so that the everyone knows and has a basic understanding of what it is, how it works. And that it's going to be helpful to them and not harmful. So in all of its manifestations. Transparency as an antiseptic. It's a powerful metaphor. Openness about how AI systems work can help prevent abuses and build public trust. But with all this talk of challenges and risks It's important to also consider how we might adapt to these changes. So I asked Congresswoman Eschew about one of the most pressing concerns for many people job displacement. And one of the last questions is kind of like about the job displacement concern that you're seeing among just industries as a whole. How are you seeing to protect the jobs that are there currently that the people have and the future of them. Well you know you could we can look over our shoulders and and learn from the past We've been through many revolutions in the country. There was the industrial revolution. There were, you know, and it you move forward. So what does it take? uh in this era to address any um job displacement. It's the new jobs that are going to be created. Uh but you need to be very purposeful about training for it. And as I said in my remarks, so many of the jobs, as in s the companies have told me, you don't need a PhD. for it. So this is something that we can do. We know how to do it. We've done it before, but we have to be purposeful about it We can't let it be uh fall to a second or third tier in terms of an overall effort. And um I know that we can do it, but we have to put the resources to it. And um I have no doubt that that it will be. can be a very exciting new chapter in the life of uh uh the United States of America. We do it right. Seize it. Yes. Run with it. Great. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. That was Congresswoman Anna Eschew, a member of the U. S. House of Representatives from California. 16th Congressional District representing Silicon Valley and co-chair of the Congressional AI Caucus. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at Newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots. Wow.