This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Florent Daudens. He's the director of news gathering and deployment at Canada's national public broadcaster, Radio Canada. where he focuses on enhancing the news department with artificial intelligence. His work involves AI training and development in their newsroom, as well as managing operations across their national, parliamentary and foreign bureaus. With a passion for AI and technology trends, he has contributed to the digital evolution of major Canadian media outlets for over 15 years. In this episode, we discussed the importance of AI literacy in newsrooms and the AI training program implemented at Radio Canada. That helps journalists understand the basics of generative AI, including effective prompting techniques and ethical considerations when using AI in their work. Florent, welcome to Newsroom Robots. Hi Nikita, thank you for inviting me to the podcast. I really enjoy uh listening to it, so it's an honor to be here. Oh thanks Florent. I actually enjoy reading all of your LinkedIn posts on your insights on AI and journalism. And actually, although you write all of your posts in French, Thanks to AI and LinkedIn's translation feature, I always translate it into English and read all of them because unfortunately my French is not at the level where I'd like to be, where I can read fluently, but I always find all of your insights so valuable. And I'm actually really eager to get into that deeper today to hear about your perspectives on AI and especially with your role. leading AI initiatives at Radio Canada, which is part of the French counterpart of CBC, which is Canada's national public broadcaster. And you focus mainly on the French-speaking audience in Canada. And your approach to enhancing AI literacy within your newsroom is something that caught my attention. And that's where I'd really like to start us off today by discussing AI literacy because upskilling newsrooms in AI is currently a huge focus for many. And I've been involved in similar efforts. So I'm very curious to hear about how have you at Radio Canada been helping all of your journalists, producers, editors to build the skills needed to harness AI uh AI tools and insights? Well it's uh it's a good uh question and and and it's really a question I'm passionate about. Uh developing AI literacy in the newsroom is is really important for me. Briefly, Radio Canada is you know, we have TV and radio stations. We also have digital platforms, uh a lot of TikTok accounts and et cetera. And within all this, I work in in news. So For the training initiatives at Raider Canada, actually there are three different aspects. The first one is the creation of an expertise group The second one is training for journalists and managers also on the basics of AI. And then an experimentation workshop I would call it l a sort of uh you know orange belt uh level for AI. So the expertise group is really designed as a cross-functional group. We don't machine learning developers. There is also an analyst, people from other departments, and obviously journalists. There's a virtual component. We have a Google group where we can exchange. news about AI, etc. And we meet in person every two weeks or three to brainstorm on coverage topics, share the latest developments in the field and ongoing project. The second aspect is the training session. It's a three-hour block that is really, I would say, the starting point for us, the foundation of AI in our newsroom. We study what AI is and what it is not, because the goal is to demystify it. And then we get our our hands dirty because we we want to explore possible use cases and and developing our prompt engineering skills and it's fundamental for two reasons because I think Journalists need to know what they're talking about to properly inform the public afterward, and you know, to know the possibilities, to be able to imagine concrete use cases in their daily task. So at the end it's a question of Innovation development because training is something extremely important for us. We want people to be able to embrace AI and not suffer from it because If we don't know what we're talking about, if we don't know the possibilities, we will just miss the train and then realize that we have to use it but we don't know how and it's gonna be scary, etc. So I think it's really important to be able to feel emperor and and you know to know the limits of it also and putting this tool in the hands of journalists is also a way for us to encourage them to experiment and to send the message that They can make mistakes too, they have to make mistakes with AI because it's the starting point to learn, to develop our expertise. And you know, recently I was uh reading a Reuters Institute study about uh media training for i AI and and I was really surprised because only 10% of newsrooms train their journalists in AI and and I remember uh a comment you you wrote on LinkedIn Another stat was 13% of newsroom don't even think about it, don't even consider training the analyst in AI. And I must say it's something I don't understand, but I guess they'd every everybody has good reasons. I think uh the point that you brought up over there is we need to embrace it because if we don't, we'll finally realize that AI has become a part of the lives, you have to finally use it. And by then it's late, late to the game basically at that same time. And so that's why I was very interested because you were talking about doing this three hour training. Is this something that's open for your entire newsroom? Does this AI training? And it's all about specifically on generative AI, or you go more deeper into all of the different aspects of AI as well? Uh it's a good question. So yeah it's open to everyone in the newsroom. Uh I uh I am pleased because it's um It's a very popular training session. So the problem we have right now is having enough time and training budget. to train everyone in the newsroom but we are on an ongoing basis giving this training so it's it's not my full-time job so i'm really trying to free up sometimes for these training sessions, but you know in three months or so I was able to have training sessions with approximately a hundred people, which is not bad for for us. And yeah, it's always interesting because we try to build the groups with people from different background or different teams So for example, we have usually people from TV, radio or web, and it gives a lot of interesting conversation and you know. different perspectives on the task and they have different daily routines. So it's I think it's really the best way to enhance our creativity. What does your course look like? What does the training sessions look like? What do you focus on over there? It's not only on generative AI, but mostly I would say. But to begin, we try to have a firm understanding of the different concepts of AI. So for example machine learning, deep learning or generative AI are not the same. And as journalists we need to be able to differentiated. We also have uh several discussions about for example what are the training data for LLMs uh and In fact, we we deconstruct what's AI and and to understand that for example when you use ChatGPT What is a transformer, for example? So how does it work? And you know, to understand that it's really a probabilistic calculation of the next word one after another. is really s a deconstruction of of AI at at the core of what it is and It's always a slide where people are like, oh, okay. So for example, I have um it's a simple example, but we use it in the training class. They have to write Please guess the next word. The sky is and everyone has a different answer and I like But why? Why don't we have the same answer? And and it's uh a great way to explain that each time you ask Chat GPT or another model question, it begins to calculate something and it will not give you the same result as the other your your colleague uh next to you. So it's a good starting point and then we explain the concept of hallucinations, why it's in fact deeply embedded in the concept of AI and why it's in a way necessary. and we clarify some some things, some key concepts. So for example, to understand that an LLM is not a search engine and we don't we shouldn't use it as a search engine. But then we see how to ground an NLM to a database or to the web, the web search tool, for example, etc. And after that, we explore our um ethic guidelines for using AI And the third part, which is maybe my favorite one, is really like prompt engineering. How to improve your results from LLMs, from Chat GPT. And you know, it's important also for journalists to understand that the training session is on ChatGPT 3. 5 and the disclaimer is The training is on a I would say it's a general public tool. It's not a specialized tool. And a reflection or a thinking we have is It's good for training, but if we want to implement AI in newsrooms, we have to think about really more specialized tools or models. No, it's another question. It's always interesting to see in in three hours we are able to really learn a lot of different things and at the end to understand how to talk to the machine. And maybe it's one of the greatest evolution of AI, we are able to talk with machines with our natural language so we can ask them to execute something. I'm always Excited to give this session because there are a lot of fascinating discussions about AI. Yeah, I really like that. Very similar actually to what I do is always talking about the basics of understanding, getting a bit deep into the technical side of AI and how it works and That really helps people then understand also why hallucination happens. Like even why does this model work? How does it even work? It's all doing, all it's doing is basically predicting the most likely next word and it's basically like autocomplete on steroids if you've ever had that. That's the way it's just working by predicting the most likely next word. And so based on that, that helps people then understand what are the different use cases they can use. And they realize it's mainly not for generating knowledge, it's for generating language. So as you said, don't use it for Google as a Google search engine. I really like that. And then then also focusing on the ethical side of when to use AI and when not to use AI. And finally, I think what you said, prompt engineering It sounds very technical when we say prompt engineering, but I think it's basically like learning how to talk to machines, right? And you know, as a journalist, we our specialty or specialization is asking the right questions and it's the same with the machine. How do you talk to it? And and you can improve your results so much. And knowing what you can ask and what you should ask and when don't ask to when you shouldn't ask the machine something. So for example each time your edital judgment is on site, you shouldn't have an interaction with with AI. But when it's for a TDU status, for example, or you know, when you have a specific question That's perfect. It's a perfect use case. But yeah, it's the prediction on steroid, it's a good image. And the core it's mathematics. And what are mathematics? It's a representation of the world. So When you understand that, you can use the magic and being able to to really use it in uh in the correct way. And what are like the example use cases you share with them to get them started with prompt writing? How do they respond to that? Well, I think one of the most interesting example is um I give them um a transcript of um a press conference uh of the prime minister talking about energy uh issues and you know he talks a lot about um hydroelectricity, solar wind, uh power. And in fact a journalist in in the press conference asked him What about nuclear energy? And his answer is we won't touch that. And it's interesting because it was the first time the Prime Minister talked about that. And it was the lead of the story this day. But if you ask to ChatGPT, hey, give me a summary of the press conference. He will not focus on nuclear energy because the Prime Minister the didn't even tell the word nuclear, it was in the question and you know the weight of the words in the general press conference hydroelectricity, wind, solar are really heavier than this just specific word. And it's a great example to explain to them, to explain to them like Sometimes you can't rely on summarization for an important news conference from the Prime Minister if you haven't heard it. If you haven't Exercise your editorial judgment to know what was important for this press conference. But for example, if you need the time code or if you need to just extract some quotes. It's useful. And if you prompt it correctly, so for example, if you tell Chat GPT act as a specialized journalist in energy questions and give me every every quotes about every kind of energy sources in this press conference, he will tell you, oh yes, and he mentioned that the country won't touch uh nuclear energy. So it's interesting, you know, it allows us to talk about how to correctly talk to the machine and also how to exercise our editorial judgment. It's just one example, but I find it really interesting Because at the beginning of the session people are like, hey, how can I use it to summarize a PDF? And sometimes it's okay, but sometimes you're taking a risk. And sometimes, you know, for journalists It's the needle in a haystack that is interesting and not the whole overview of the document. Yeah, wow, that's actually a really great example I'm actually gonna use this example because I think it's a very great exercise in when to use AI and when not, because something like a Prime Minister's uh press conference, you if you just summarize it, you'll miss the key. part of it that became the story, as you said, the needle in the haystack is what we are usually looking at, and that's the human quality, again, exercising that editorial judgment. Absolutely. Imagine if you miss the lead, it's uh it could be awful. So yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Okay, so this has been very interesting. You have this like three parts to your training program and then after that, what does like the follow-up look like? How do you try and see that people are able to use AI and use these kinds of tools, how do they then embed their AI into their workflows? Yeah, it's it's an interesting question. Well, uh the first measure of success, I would say, is at the beginning of the training session, ask them, for you, what is AI in a world or two? And not everything is is black, but I got words like fear, replacement, loss of control. I even had uh octopus. So this kind of big images of something scary and and you know destabilizing. And at the end he in the end of the the session Ask them the same question and you know I've divided the the whiteboard in two and I have words like creativity, sense of control, possibility. So we can measure immediately a sense of ownership. And after the training session, a survey is sent to participants. And one thing that really pleases me is that to the question of whether People are able to concretely apply the learning in the training in their work. The score is very, very high. I think it's one of the highest we have for training sessions. So it's a good indication also. And another measurement is since we began to give this training session, I can sense We have a better understanding of issues surrounding AI and it gave us a lot of ideas for news stories. And you know, ideas are the most valuable thing in a newsroom, so it's really important. And another example is this training program also led us to the creation of an internal Prince library. So in fact I'm always surprised to see people using Chat GPT or other AI tools on their own when there's a real value to be created by pooling prompts, for example. And we need to realize the value of prompts. Think about them together and you know newsrooms need to conceive them as a common tool, I think. So in general, I can see we use it much more in everyday life. So for for uses like uh transcription, but also uh wider ideas like for example we created the how mark movie scenario generator for for christmas based on on ai you know have um Examples in mind. For example, a colleague used the text extraction function with the vision in Chat GPT in images. to generate Excel files from access to information's request because I don't know why, but uh most of the time when we have data from access to information requests, it's always scanned in a way we can't extract the data. But if you just take a picture, send it to Chat GPT, you have a nice Excel sheet and it's easy to use. So amazing. One of my favorite features, by the way, of ChatGPT. It's a real time saver. And uh, you know, we have uh different examples. For example, uh one has this reverse idea of generating wrong answers to news quizzes. So I guess because it's drilled to generate the the real answers, so use Chat GPT to have the wrong ones. And it's creative, it's funny. Wow, I love that. So it's like your prompt internal prompt library that you have been organizing. Once people take this course, then you are able to share that knowledge within the team. How do you actually put it together? Like where is it hosted? How are you able to have people contribute to this? Uh it's uh a low-key tool. Uh in fact it's uh Google Sheets because we we uh at Radio Canada we have the Google uh these uh tools uh so gmail uh google drive and and so on so it's uh hosted on uh internal website the google uh website and uh everybody can interact uh add their own prompts like suggestions, etc. So we can gradually improve them and find new use cases. But I have the f the the a feeling that it's it's not enough to just put these tools somewhere on internet in our internal uh website. So we are actually building a prompt clinic. And the pronktonic is the idea of, you know, in fact, it's an idea I've been simmering since the start of the training, and I see it really as a level two because once the awareness phase is done, we we need to explore concrete cases. So we are in in the thick of it right now. We approach it not from the angle of employment in general, but rather like all the tasks that constitute our job. So we ask everyone to break down the task of their job and think about which tasks AI could be useful to implement. So we will have a practical session where the goal is to come out with a concrete tools. So for example, it could be a prompt, obviously. It could be a program, a Google Collab, GPT, name it. But we really want to focus on having really specific applications. We don't want to it to be just another item on a to-do list overload developers who don't have the time to work on it. So we really want to do short concrete iterations and we will capitalize on that. And you know, for more structural projects, it's on the side of the digital media department. And by the way, I wish that the developers will participate to the prompt clinic because you know it it will just enrich the ideas of everyone and create a culture of collaboration so it's it's very important for me and at the end again the goal is to create value uh if we each use chat gpt in a corner it will remain something artisanal and not very effective. So yeah, again I I think we can we can really go much farther by sharing our ideas The main idea behind that is the best use cases, and I'm convinced about that, will come from people using it. in their operations. Yes, absolutely. Those are like the two things I always say about why we need to be doing and focusing on AI electricity in newsrooms right now. First of all, because as you said, the more people who have access to this tool understand it, the more use cases you can come up with. Every single person has a completely different set of ideas, problems that they encounter when they're working. And it brain you can brainstorm about that with the different use cases. And also as you say, second is we need to be informed citizens about AI because at the end of the day we are the ones who are reporting Finding breaking stories about AI. If we don't understand the technology, how are we going to be reporting effectively on AI and finding stories and misuse of AI and all of these different aspects. So you're really building that into your team over there. That's what I'm getting from here. Yeah, absolutely. And and and you're absolutely right about, you know, having the importance of understanding AI because there is a lot of marketing about it and and you know it's it's a real revolution in a sense, but it there's also a lot of AI labels where it's not really AI. So we have to be able to differentiate true from from you know false. Claims about AI and it's yeah really important. So the prompt clinic was something that is a follow-up that you have to your three-hour training sessions, now a more practical, hands-on, bringing people. to brainstorm use cases and create GPTs or some sort of like small prototype product. That's what you really focus on during the prom clinic, right? Yeah, yeah, you you need to to follow the first training session to be able to participate to the to the prompt clinic because maybe if you're really a specialist or if you understand AI well you you can assist to to to the prompt clinic, but I think it's really important to have this common framework of Knowing the basics and you know having a common vocabulary and approach on prompt engineering. If we start from scratch, uh if we need to understand how to craft a good prompt, we will lose our time. So it's really a way to you know shift gear and and digging a little bit deeper and to generating concrete use cases for our newsrooms. And I look forward to to see what will come out of the opportunity it It's it's a kind of opportunity identification exercise. And uh I'm sure they will have a lot of ideas because they they also they already have some some some ideas and and it they don't need to have a well-formed idea. I think the main goal for this prompt clinic is just to have to identify the task on which they want to work on. And it's the most important thing. If you don't know how to build the tool, that's okay. We will think about it together. But if you just have the idea of, hey, this is It's a painful point for me, this specific task, and I would like to automate it or to you know to have an assistant to help me for that, be it uh for example feeling access to information request or you know, extracting data from from files or transcription, that kind of thing. We can imagine a lot of different use cases in the newsroom. I feel like you must be sitting on like a treasure trove of use cases for generative AI pulled across your entire newsroom. Yeah, and and the goal is to unlock it. But I'm I'm I'm I'm convinced that we we we are sitting on it. And you know, I foresee major possibilities in in various fields and my approach will always be to encourage in the concrete and daily life of journalists. of journalists to make them useful tools. And you know, I see several important use cases, for example, uh content adaptation. We have many platforms to fill, as I said. We have TV, radio stations, we have TikTok accounts, websites, news apps, we have specific formats for you know readers, etc. our resources are increasingly limited. So if we manage to configure tools well, starting for example with a few shot prompts or if it's if necessary with fine-tuning, we would be able, for example, to generate a a web article draft from a TV the text and and it can be a significant gain for for journalists. The same for a TikTok script, for example. To adapt a TV story for TikTok could be useful with a well-trained GPT or a carefully crafted prompt. A small example I developed for New Zoom and for my own measure was Twitter thread tool. You can give it an article and ask it to generate a tweet or thread with a number of tweets of your choice in the language of your choice for a specific audience. And you know the synthesis exercise works well. It always needs to be tailored, but what a time saver. And it's a simple example of content adaptation. which can be pushed further. Once you have the idea and you iterate on it, it should be really useful. Another important use case I see is transcription. Because for us the potential is huge. We are based on radio and TV stories. So we are electronic media. So if we can transcribe everything we produce and everything we have produced before, we potentially unlock a torrent of data. And you know, for example, for indexing for entity recognition, for internal training, for accessibility, which is an important goal for us as a public media. We can also have a a considerable leverage effect with the amount of video we produce every day. With CBC, I think we are probably the place where the most feeds, shootings, live broadcasts converge in the news media in the country every day. So it's it's a unique cultural heritage in the country and it has m a major value both for the public and for AI development. And for example, my colleagues are in the archives department already seeing their work evolve. great base uh daily. There are multiple different examples for for example research and data crossing for digging into tons of data. There are several interesting interesting tools like Google pinpoint. And I read something this morning they were adding some AI capabilities to it this week. Can you share a bit more about that, Google Pinpoint, and what is the how you've been using it for research? It's actually an old tool, by the way, Google Pinpoint as well. That's what I was gonna say. Is is in my opinion, it's really an undervalued tool because it's so efficient, you can ingest a lot of data. in it be it videos, audio, images, and it can extract text from it can transcript your video and and and your audio, it can uh find text and images, etc. And then it will automatically create tags index content so you'll have a search engine for your content. I think you can upload up to 200,000 documents for one collection. So you know for investigation purposes it's it's really efficient. This week I was talking to uh colleagues from uh Radio France and They have a project with the Research Institute where as soon as a politician says a number on their uh in their shows, it automatically fact checks in database databases of statistical institute if it's true or not. So you know that kind of use case is really interesting. And you know, for data, another uh uh case uh I tested out out of uh of curiosity are the um election results And so we don't necessarily think about it, but for structured structured data like uh result uh tables It really requires a different AI programming that unstructured data. So I wanted to dig a little deeper on this question and I developed a tool to probe the results database from natural language queries. And it's quite impressive. It can quickly really, the cost of prompts could be a little bit high. but the quality of the responses is is there. So you know I I even asked my LinkedIn community to try to break it and it allowed me to rework some aspects and so you know it's quite iterative. And We could consider uploading the results of the last 10 years or more and imagine what a useful tool it could be for election night. You can like just ask, hey, who won in this riding? ten years ago and he will uh find the answer for you. So imagine the this kind of uh, you know, uh specific tools really making our life easier and and, you know, that's something we we really need to think about. And you know, another thing I'm thinking about for use cases is, and maybe I'm projecting a bit into the future, but There's an opportunity to deeply rethink the way the public will interact with information and how we want to presented it to them because we already see with mobile devices where there are emerging examples of you know devices completely retalked and betting on AI. And you know, there are also conversational possibilities, agents, AI boosted search engines, uh that kind of thing, uh, cloning, hyper-personalization. And I think it can change the way of interacting with the web. And without necessarily making current users disappear, it can add to them. And we need to think about this. We need to think about What forms of journalism are we going to present to our public users? And what we will send to the external platforms like Search engines or chat GPT, that kind of thing. It's something we we really need to think about it right now, I think. That's a very interesting point. One that I haven't really thought about or heard about actually much. Like a whole different way in which information is catered. for your audience versus catering it for search engines or training data per se for all of these models. O So maybe like an API or some sort of a database for them But you're having new and innovative forms for your audience. It's not the same thing going to both places. Absolutely. Like do we do we still focus on writing classical web articles or do we think of ways of new ways of presenting information and and you know really focus on how will people interact will interact with devices, with platforms, and with information. You know, if you can ask an agent to summarize your content. I recently saw a very interesting project I want to try out from Langchain. It's called I think GPT newspaper. And you can just select the different news sources and tell, okay, today I'm interested about federal politics and you know uh environment news and finance and it will build you a personalized newspaper, but digital newspaper, it's really the starting point of something and what how it will evolve and with will it be useful? I don't know, but for example We are able to interact with the ChatGPT with the voice. Will we interact with information with voice? We will see. So, you know, really thinking about The f physical or the form we will present information is is crucial and it we need to do it right. I really think that's such a crucial point that you're bringing up. One thing I keep on looking at all of these tech companies and social media, they They adopt a very like product thinking methodology to the way they're building out their products, constantly understanding user behavior, collecting a lot of data on users. and then automatically then modifying their products. And that's how we have come to where we are in the way that social media platforms have taken over the traffic, I would say. And The good things that they're doing over there, we could embody maybe the way they're uh working on their products and iterating it so quickly and rapidly. Like every time you go on to like Any of these social media platforms, you regularly see like a new user feature update. It goes away from time to time because they're testing out and seeing if users are liking it or not. And I think those kind of qualities we bring towards the way we are creating news experience. That's what you're saying. It's like like s let's focus on right now what the future of news looks like. Let's start interviewing people, let's start testing out and start thinking way ahead because the news experience has to change with AI. And you're raising, I think, an existential question because as journalists We only define ourselves as content creators or we just focus on content and I think newsroom, news organizations. need to think about themselves as yes content business but also as tech companies And it's not natural for us. It's not natural to collaborate with developers. It's not natural to think about machines. And I'm convinced that AI can unlock that kind of thing. We we can pretend and we can try to be more technical than we are right now. And it's fundamental, as you said, because it will allow us to think about news experience. We We should not stay in our ivory tour and just think about if you build they will come. It's not the case anymore. And AI will probably have a huge consequences ways news are consumed and on news consumption because devices will change Habits will change and and you know also what people will expect from us. So yeah, it's an important moment to think and and And you know it it raises interesting question about, for example, personalization. Do we want to create an individual news offer for each people? Is it a bad idea? What will we lose in the in this kind of trade-off between, you know, our goal is to inform the general public and have different ideas confronting in the s in the public space. But also what if you as a user want something very specific? It will be a delicate balance to find in these use cases. But again We need to think ourselves as both content and tech companies. It's it's crucial, I think. This whole thing is actually just bringing me back to the interview I had with Jeff Jarvis where he was talking about if you focus on just content, we will be doomed because GPT, all these large language models are able to produce content at such speed and commoditize it. And also maybe we move news to go back to the conversation. The history of news has always been this conversation that we are having with people. And personalization maybe is the way of seeing it as also having a conversation with your audience, moving from producing mass media for many. to producing it at a more individual level and you're having a conversation with an audience building that experience. So this has been fascinating actually to just go deeper into to think about where the future of news should be, what should be she focusing on right now. I love the the episode with Chap Jabris because and in it's exactly the quote I had in mind w it was the most striking in this episode. It was like Do we focus too much or are we just obsessed with content? We need to be obsessed by content. It's our specialization, it's what we do best. But you know, I was I was talking to uh Philippe Baudouin, he's uh an entrepreneur here in Montreal, specialized in in AI, and He's a news junkie. He really has a deep care for journalism. But he asked me this question. Do you think writing will still be an important added value in journalism in the next few years. And he didn't have the answer, but I was like, eh, you know, it's a tough question because I think as journalists Words are carefully crafted and it's very important to craft them well, but we also need to open the question of What's the most important thing? Where do we create value for the public? And by by value I mean democratic value, public interest and that much. But For several new species, you will want to craft your words very carefully. But for other ones, maybe you can have an assistant helping you I don't say you we should publish something created entirely by AI and closing our eyes and hoping everything would be okay, but Can we free up some time with a lot of different platforms to feed? Do we need to invest a lot of time in writing and adaptating our content? I think it's a conversation we need to have and and Probably every newsroom will find a different answer. It all comes down to your internal culture, your values, and it it will be also an individual individual question. What do you expect? What effort do you put in writing versus speaking to sources and and finding unknown information. It's an interesting question. And I don't have the answer. It's an answer we need to find together. Exactly. I don't think anybody has the answer right now. That's that's the whole point I'm doing this actually to try and see if we can come up with an answer together and keep talking about this. But that also brings me actually Back to one thing that I wanted to learn more about was about these AI models. We they are predominantly English-based. They have been trained, all of these large language models have been trained extensively on English data. So I'm actually quite curious, you're talking about all of these use cases, your French newsroom. How do all of these AI models perform in the French language? Is it still as effective or you have to do everything, communicate with it in an English mainly? Hence an interesting question. We've seen a lot of progress, but historically it was a problem. For example, for the transcription of video or audio, models were primarily trained in English and they were therefore useless in French. Then they improved in French, but with the French accent. And with the Quebec accent, for example, the error rate was still high But then we saw big players like uh I think for example Amazon was the first to train its models with Quebec speakers and then it became really usable in production Today with models like Whisper from OpenAI, we see little difference. My impression is that it's more related to the the model that done training data, but I might be wrong, but but it's really the most effective I've tested in several languages, by the way. And open it's it's open source, so you can integrate it in different applications. On the tech side, I think it really depends on the models. GPT-4, for example, if my memory is correct, on a three-shot accuracy benchmark on MMLU. And and I would not enter into the details, but it is a benchmark for, you know. evaluating capacities to reason. I think it's something around 85% in English and 83% in French. So you know it's not a big difference. And you know, I've also noticed a certain effectiveness in adaptating to Quebec-specific uh spelling or words, for example, if we specify it to the to the model. Like you are telling the model specifically like a Quebec French. Yeah, yeah. For example for for Chad G4, you tell him uh hey, please write with uh um for a French speaking audience in Quebec and we will adapt uh several words because you know and I was born in France so I can't tell him but in France we use a lot of English words, that's not the case in Quebec. So you know it's uh it's a kind of cultural difference and it's always interesting. And but that said, yeah, there are real issues about cultural sovereignty. For example, the French startup Mistral, which developed really small but but very efficient models. They that by the way they recently raised I think uh forty four four hundred million dollars and and so they're really expanding and their first model uh it was my Mistral uh 7B it was uh it had only been trained in English and I must say I was surprised but Their second level, Mixtral 8, Multiple 7B, masters French, Italian, German, and Spanish, and you know it scores slightly better. on the MMLU benchmark in French than in English. And you know, it's funny because in Montreal it's important to note that uh Montreal is an AI hub, notably with uh thinkers researchers like uh Yoshua Benjo Joel Pinault they are among the brightest in in the field Yann Lequin is a French researcher and and It may not translate explicitly in models created, for example, in French, but for us, for the Canada, for journalists. It does immerse us in the in the ecosystem and it's a big advantage, I think. And for example, we can frequently heal them on our airwaves, especially Yoshua Benjo. And um recently we did a special two-hour show really about AI, and we had the privilege of having all the three researchers. Yoshi Abendjo, Joshua Joël Pineot and Ian Lequin on the same TV show. So you know it's kind of unique. And I was like, whoa, it's very interesting. And we had so much good feedback from the public. They were like, hey, we understood what AI is. And you know, my next uh weekend project is uh thanks to Yann Lequin, I saw that there is a dataset that had just been released. called uh Gallicagram, I think, and it's based on French newspapers with um 85 billion words. And I think it's a very good base for fine-tuning models in French. So I will try it and and and I will keep you posted about my uh my results. I hope they will be good. Are your LinkedIn LinkedIn post? So you put all your weekend experiments, I think, on your LinkedIn post. So that's where listeners can go and Translate it to English on LinkedIn and hear more about it. And you've been doing a lot of these experiments because you also have done something for teaching. You also teach journalism, a digital journalism course, and you've been doing experiments over there. How have you been integrating AI? Yeah, I have this privilege to to to teach journalism at the uh University of Montreal and uh it deeply changes the way I teach and and for the better really because at the beginning you know at the beginning of the session and I I asked who used Chat GPT for example and the vast majority of students raised their hand. They were like, yeah, on a daily basis for writing and that much. So they were honest Yeah, yeah, they're honest, and that's a good point. And you know, if it's a sensitive question, for example, for evaluations. So for example, in this course I've made it clear with them that they can use it. I encourage them to use it. I I teach them how to use ChatGPT. But you know, I asked them to specify to me how it was useful or not in their work. So we have this kind of you know trust contract. I thought about how to implement AI further in in teaching and I have several use cases in mind. So for example I teach uh coding and data visualization. And it's not easy to master data visualization. For example, a library like uh d3. js. When you're starting from scratch, you're like, oh, it's complicated. And and a lot of question I had in the previous years from students was Should I learn to code? And my answers my answer always was you should understand the fundamentals. You don't need to be and probably you not going to be a great coder, but you really need to understand the basics of languages. But I think with AI my answer changed a little bit. I think you can interact with machines in a much more natural way. So I guide them through how to interact with the machine to have an output in a specific language. So for example, make me a bar chart in D3GS with the Canadian population by province. And you will have a decent code that you can use. And looking at the code, you can try to understand the syntax, for example. So it's um it's really interesting. For example, also to brainstorm with myself. You know, my course plan evolves every year, and uh, but you know, brainstorming with me uh ends up having its limits So out of curiosity, I try to question, can you help me write a course plan for a course in digital journalism? And you know. I had uh planning eight points, uh digital skills, distribution strategy, tools, etc. etc. Would I have used it as it is? No, but it made me think about my actual plan and I read it more attentively and it gave me some ideas of you know helping me to try to to to make my course evolve And this year I'm especially excited about a weekend project again. About in fact I pushed a concept I wanted to explore for a long time. It was retrieval augmented generation. Just a quick explanation on like what retrieval augmented generation is, where you're basically optimizing the output of the large language model by focusing its knowledge on specific content that you provided. So it's not just all of the entire training data that it has been trained on. That's so that's so you so you used retrieval augmented generation or RAG as it's called to build out. Your egg weekend project? Yeah, I ingested all my course notes in and uh in this tool and you know I record each class to then transcribe transcribe it automatically with whisper and add it to the robot and you know therefore they have this kind of AI assistant They can ask students can ask questions, clarify concepts, and from a pedagogical point of view, I learn as much as my students because I solicit their feedback for each response, I log their questions to see how it integrates to the course, and you know Personally had a blast writing it and and now I'm really refining it on a on a weekly basis and it's interesting because It's been eight years since I started this course, and I think it's the most important change in my Pedagogical approach with them. It was this AI teaching assistant. So it's it's just an example, but I think an interesting one. How does it work? Like how are the students using it? They can really ask uh questions. So for example, uh the teacher, the professor talk about uh SEO concept, how to optimize a text for SEO. And so for example, if they didn't understand quite well the concept of SEO, The assistant will just, you know, dig into the the course notes and and clarify, explain them this concept. And it has a very, you know, pedagogical tone and this infinity patience with them. So The interactions are really interesting. You can also, for example, we have uh we have an exercise uh for next week where they have to uh write an article about uh from a news conference. They could try, for example, to give this their text to DAI assistants and ask them a state, is my text, is my story correct regarding SEO optimization concept and the AI tool will try to give an answer. So it's really an experimental project and I you know, established with my students that they have to think about it like d this way. But uh there are many uh I can see their questions and and mainly since the beginning of the session it has been about clarifying concepts and yeah we'll see where it goes. I love that that you're talking about because also at the same time you are able to see the questions that students are asking and so as a result you're able to understand if There are certain concepts. If everyone's asking about SEO, maybe you have to talk more about SEO and clarify that concept for them. And if they are if just like a couple of students have questions about SEO, they can get this bot to dig through the notes and explain it and make it simpler for them and to understand and So that's a really, really effective and great use case that you're talking about for teaching and showing it's also for teaching journalism. Absolutely. And you're right. I can see, for example, if I have a lot of questions with the boat about a specific concept. Maybe it's because I wasn't clear during my course and so I can think about, oh, maybe I should take a moment to explain again or better this specific concept because five different students asked the bot uh the bot questions about it. So yeah. And all that you built though was with line chain and it's It's all you need to be a coder and you need to be technical to be able to create those bots. But also for a lot of the listeners listening, I'm thinking right now with custom GPTs, it's basically Able to also take in knowledge and be able to create these specialized bots. So that is a sort of no-code way. in which would be an easier way maybe for people to test out and prototype something like this kind of a bot as well. You're right. And and and custom GPT is is a really interesting avenue. I try to to uh create a custom GPT with my my node. In fact, I trailed several options, but for this specific use case, I finally go towards a solution I coded myself with the help of Linkchain and for a specific aspect. the observability one because there is a tool in Langchain called Langsmith and LangSmith allows you to really see to log every question to log every interaction and that's what I needed. Without it, maybe the custom GPT would have been a very simple and easy to use solution. It's a no-code solution, as you said, and it's a promising avenue It's something I use personally because I'm I'm trying to learn Mandarin for five years now. Wow. Yeah, well I'm trying to. And you know, I've ingested my textbook to a custom GPT and so I can practice my my Chinese with with the GPT and it's it's efficient and my teacher don't see what I'm doing so it's okay. I love hearing all these personal use cases that you have all filled in you you've been experimenting so much with AI. You have all of these different use cases. AI is part of your life there. Oh yeah, absolutely. But you know, a discouraging example is uh I try to clone myself for with uh Hei Jane in Chinese. And I showed it to my teacher and she was brutally honest. She was like, hey, it's far better than you. And I was like, oh no. So the AI avatar that spoke Chinese was better than you speaking Chinese. Like speaking Mandarin Yeah, so it's um it's an humbling moment, but yeah. Yeah, besides that, yeah, I think he AI is really part of my daily routine, you know LinkChain has been a really uh useful tool for me, absolutely, with Lake Chain. Uh there is also a prompt hub, that kind of thing. So, you know, it's allowed me to go quite far in the exploration of autonomous agents, for example, which are capable of performing complex L test and uh the chatbot is in is indeed the result of of an agent that manipulates uh data but you know i think And I'm really grateful for that. There are a lot of different resources on the web to learn and and you know to develop your expertise in AI. And maybe the most valuable one I'm thinking about. is the impressive work done by Andrew Eng at uh Stanford University. Love Andrew Eng. You know, I I follow almost all of the art short courses and Recently I I plunged uh into the um machine learning specialization and you know it was I think it's approximately a hundred hours and you know it allows you to really gain uh a a fine intuition of the theoretical and practical foundation of this discipline and you know the short courses are free And I must say Andrew is is an excellent teacher because he can make you understand quite pointed mathematical concept with brilliance. And I was like, oh wow, it's uh yeah, it's impressive really. Kind of like one of my final questions that I want to wrap up with is to understand your personal journey and hear about that because you're actually not a coder developer. You're more on the editorial side. You started off on the editorial side of the newsroom and How you're talking about a lot of complex technical terms here about using Lang Smith and Lang Chin and that's all like LLM development technology being able to code with that. So how did you kind of bring yourself to that level of proficiency and fluency with coding? Well, it's uh I think it comes really from a personal interest, but I've always been interested by technology. You know, if we my professional journey was um Mostly on the on the web and then on the management of newsroom. And I'm convinced that you know if you want to bring innovation into newsrooms, you have to understand both the editorial thinking of journalism, obviously, but also to gain a kind of intimate understanding or intuition about How technology works, especially with AI. You can have a general understanding and and it's really important. But when when you start to think about okay, how can we implement AI in newsrooms, I think you have to know which tools are available, uh what are they capable of and Again, with a lot of useful resources accessible on the web, it's very easy to to learn it and I must say I think I have developed a really passion for this question because it raises so many different interesting questions about journalism and technology. And and you know, I have a background in data visualization and data analysis, so it really helped me. because a lot of AI is based on data. But thanks to courses, online courses, I was able to develop uh this kind of thing. And you know, it's ironic, but uh one of the best way I found to being and keeping updated about AI was to build automated newsletter based on chat GPT to synthesize I think around 50 different sources in a news in a daily newsletter that I receive in my inbox automatically. So every day I have this kind of short resume uh uh synthesis of the most important news in AI also and also research papers in AI. So it summarizes all the newsletters that you get, you created a bot on top of that to summarize all of The different newsletters. I love it! I'm gonna try that out. I didn't thought about this. And you know, I didn't know anything about, for example, AWS or uh almost nothing and by just interacting with ChatGPT and asking it to hey help me to program this newsletter and then Host it on AWS and schedule a crumb job and that kind of thing. And you know, with uh trial and errors, I was able to create this. automate the newsletter. So it's an interesting example. Yes, I have a bit of technological interest, but I really think that AI unlocks something for our interaction with with machines. And you know, the interesting thing about it all is also that It forces us to question ourselves about what's the most important thing in journalism. Sometimes we tend to define ourselves with uh creativity or uh different definitions and yeah in some respects ai is creative ai is Is it intelligent? I don't know. I mean in a sense that can accomplish more and more a complex task, but you know uh at the end of the day what is our singularity and what makes us unique as as humans as as as journalists and I think above all it's curiosity Because a machine will not spontaneously ask itself a question. And the other thing is editorial judgment. We discussed it before, but I think When there is editorial judgment involved, it will always remain something only and fundamental, fundamentally human. This kind of philosophical question is really important and and and it's I'm convinced it will just make us evolve in our in our um in our job, in our profession in a more uh in a deeper way. That is such a such a great point to kind of wrap up this entire conversation on that it's basically the innate human qualities of curiosity and editorial judgment. is still going to stay true even in the world of journalism, even with AI having a huge part in it. Those are the two main things that actually define us, I would say, as news and as journalists and and what the news industry really focuses on, judging what is finding the stories and being curious and asking the questions and that leads to knowledge and that leads to creating knowledge and that's what we are in the business of. And Florin, this has just been very I'm very fascinated by all of the different use cases you've brought about today and the way you're teaching AI. And building the AI literacy within your newsroom, the culture you're building, I'm fascinated by it. Absolutely love it. And also just the way you're talking about all of these different use cases in which it's embedded within your life, within your teaching, and how you've kind of helped Upskill your own self by with ChatGPT asking it to teach you how to do tasks and coding tasks that you have never done before. So fascinating. I love it. Absolutely love it. And thank you so much for joining me on the podcast, Florence. This has been a very, very fascinating conversation. Thank you very much, Nikta. I really enjoyed the conversation and you know I I didn't mention uh a specific use case. Uh it's uh drawing uh unicorns for my daughter on a daily basis and I think maybe it's the most uh Another, yes. But I'm really bad at the rate, so thanks to uh that to AI, I can be uh a better father. There you go, also helping you of skill be able to entertain your daughter. Why not? Love it. As you said, it's a creativity machine, and that's what it's helping you do. So Absolutely. Absolutely. Thank you, Florence. Thank you, Nikita. And looking forward to listening to different episodes of this uh your series uh It's always a pleasure to to listen to your guests and you. That was Florent Dodens, the Director of News Gathering and Deployment at Radio Canada. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and And sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy, and this is Newsroom Robots.