This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Sarah Bakpoor. She's the co-founder and CEO of Particle, an AI-powered news aggregator. Before launching Particle, Sarah spent more than a decade working on product and engineering at Twitter. In this episode, Sarah takes us inside how Particle works. From its reality check process to catch errors and AI-generated summaries, to its bias meter that surfaces how stories are being covered across the political spectrum. We explore how she's thinking about trust and transparency in AI-powered news, why personalization doesn't have to mean filter bubbles. and how AI could reshape the relationship between publishers, platforms, and audiences. Hi Sarah. Welcome to News from Robots. Hi, Nikita. Thank you for having me. Excited to be here. I'm really excited to understand a lot more about particle AI. been this new AI aggregated news experience that people have been talking about. I have been excited to explore it. And so there's been a lot of questions also that's been on my mind about what this new tool is. how this app works, what it means for journalism. So I'm really excited to get into all of that with you today, Sarah. But before we get into everything, can you just give our listeners and people who might not be familiar with particle AI, what exactly does it do and the founding story of how particle began? Sure. So particle is at the surface a news aggregator that is uh powered by AI. So we create news summaries so that you can get quickly up to speed. And we personalize it for you. And we really want to be the easiest way for you to keep up with the news to get a multi-perspective, personalized, streamlined way of like quickly catching up. with the news. And that might mean that you're just kind of skimming through those things that you are interested in, or it might mean that you want to go really deep on a particular story and In that case, particle acts as a map for you to understand what the basic issues of the story are, what the key points are. and how to go deeper, how to go deep into you know the sources that are reporting on it, ask questions about it, further research, other links, all that kind of stuff. So we really want to meet customers where they are And that might mean you have very little time for news today, or it might mean you have a lot of time for news today, or it's something that you're like really interested in for today. So we show you kind of the most Important information about a story in just a few bullet points and you can personalize the experience by tuning the topics that you're interested in. We just launched in November and so we're really excited by all of the feedback that's been coming in and how people are using the product. And uh yeah, that's the that's the story of Particle. So in terms of how we founded it, so my co-founder Marcel and I, we started a couple of years ago. Chat GPT had just come out And the both of us used to work at Twitter and it was going through an ownership change at the time. And we were kind of thinking, we got together and and and were kind of thinking like this is an interesting opportunity Because with what we were seeing happening with LLMs, we felt like we were at the precipice of something that was really going to change. And that, you know, of course ended up being true. in terms of how we can process information and how we can just kind of kind of change the way that people learn about things. And so we thought about what were some of the best things about Twitter, which, you know, is or was, depending on who you are, a place where you could easily get caught up on the news. But one of the things that, you know, I've observed and that Marcella's uh has observed throughout my time at Twitter is Sometimes those conversations are not productive. And those conversations on on a lot of social media platforms, one of the reasons that they're not productive is they're not necessarily starting from the same set of facts. Of course everyone has their own opinions and everyone has different lived experiences, but we're also not always starting from the same set of facts. or the like impact of something that might be so an example that Marcel often uses is you might we might be talking about a bill or you know piece of legislation. And uh it might be like cutting healthcare or some funding in said bill. But if you were to actually look and dig deeper into it and if we were starting from the same set of facts, you might learn that actually the healthcare cut here is like a drop in the bucket and is like not as big of a deal. as the conversation that you might be having online. It might not be proportionate to the heat that's happening in that conversation. Just a like a random example that I'm just kind of making up here. But But the point being, we thought, how do we because it's so hard to get up to date on the facts. And the lens through which we learn about what's going on is either a lot of work Or it's maybe not so much work, but it's very biased or it's very charged and the temperature level is high. And if you're using a social media platform You are also getting an algorithmic view of how to interpret certain events. So we started kind of from there thinking, how do we just get people to be up to date on the agreed-upon facts from all sides? First and foremost. And that's really what the core particle story is about. Because we look at the sources from all across the political spectrum and we summarize kind of what is agreed upon. What are the facts that are agreed upon from all sides? And then to the extent that there are discrepancies, we do our best in the product to call them out and draw your attention to them and say that, you know Here's how the right is framing something, and here's how the left is framing something. Now I'm using political examples to kind of go into how we think about that, but this applies more broadly as well. So maybe it's a movie review and uh a movie came out and a lot of people hated it or it was mixed. And you know, we want to try to show the spectrum of how a story is being covered. So that was how particle began. I think from your experience at Twitter, you can see that when things are just put in a very concise format, sometimes nuance is removed. And I think that's one of the things I want to talk specifically about particle is the way in which these summaries are created. As you said, these summaries are of multiple different sources. So how do you ensure that summaries don't flatten the nuance or remove any important points from these stories when you're creating it? So I'll say a couple of things. One is we want to make sure that the summary is reflective of the nuance or any like specific details in the reporting. And one of the ways that we do that is through a process that we call a reality check. And what that does is it's an additional LLM process in our whole pipeline that double checks. every claim made in the summary against the source material to make sure that it's properly representing the source material. And And if you're not familiar with kind of like how LLMs work at a deeper level, you might be like, cool, why don't you just do that the first time? Why do you have to do it in a second step? And the reason is because LLMs are not perfect and you know we do see a percentage of errors or misleading outputs and so doing multiple checks greatly reduces the likelihood that something misleading or incorrect will end up in your final output. LLMs are a lot like humans and it's kind of like you might write something, but you're gonna have someone proofread it or you're gonna have someone check it or double check it. And the more people that you have double checking the work, the more likely it's gonna be error free. So that's one part of how we make sure some of that nuance and like important details are captured. Another thing that we do is we extract important quotes. from primary sources and we show those to you within the context of a story and I think seeing from exactly what someone said from the source of the person who said it adds quite a bit of color to what is otherwise kind of like a very general summary of, you know, what's going on in the story, like this is Trump's actual quote or this is JD Vance's actual quote. I think adds some of that nuance that might otherwise be some of that emotion or some of that passion or whatever that might otherwise be lost in in a generated summary. And so I'm quite curious that that that's one of those features that's helping and reduce that hallucination part, but also in the general the algorithm is kind of giving us the news over here. And being able to analyze the different sort of political biases that might be there on news articles, highlighting the reporting. How is the AI sort of determining and making all of these determinations? to help the audience. So the AI within Particle I think operates in some pretty structured boxes. And so we use AI to do the summary generation for a story. We don't use AI currently within particle to identify the bias of a particular story. So we're using human designated labels and um you know, we use labels that are from nonpartisan organizations who say that CNN is like to the left and Fox News is to the right. So we do that for hundreds and hundreds of sources so that we can identify kind of the coverage of of a story and how That story is being presented. Now, before we had this in the app when we were still in private beta and we didn't have this bias meter, The AI summary is only a reflection of the coverage behind it. So we would sometimes see stories that were only being reported from the left or only being reported from the right. And that's fine. That's something that happens. That's a reflection of what the left cares about that day or what the right cares about that day. But it did result in a summary that's presented very neutrally. having an inherent bias. And so that's that was one of the motivations for calling out actually here is how this story is being reported because that bias will trickle into the summary. It's hard to avoid that. And that is true of any any kind of summarization. It's going to be reflective of the bias of the source material. So that's kind of how we arrived at calling out how a story is being covered and is an important lens for the user. you know, as they're reading to understand as they read through their summaries. And that's one of the reasons why we we created this like very simple line with these little popcorn bubbles that are different colors so that it's something you can just kind of see ambiently as you're reading. Again, we want to remove the work. If you have to do research to understand if a piece that you're reading is biased left or right, you're just not going to do it. And then you'll just be less informed. And so we want to do all of that work for you. and make it as easy for you as possible to have the information that you need to understand something. And I'm really curious, like the bias part that's managed by humans. And I'm wondering in this entire process from the moment newsbreaks to the moment Particle presents that summary to the users, what part of that is the algorithm and where are sort of the human checkpoints that come into that? Great question. So what you said about the bias being like human, the inputs are human, but what as it's happening every day it's computed. So a human is not kind of writing the bias spectrum for each thing So let me walk through the process of how a story ends up on particle. So we do not summarize a story until at least three articles about it have been written by at least two different publishers. And at that point we'll create a summary. We'll create essentially what is a candidate summary from at least three articles. And That summary will generate a headline, a subhead, and bullet point summary and some metadata about it. The quotes will be extracted, the links will be extracted, et cetera. Then it will go through the reality check. So that's like the kind of additional step in the process where every claim that was made in that summary is checked again against the source material. And that process also produces an audit log. So you could see a human can see what is the evidence that each summary is correct. And that audit log also produces a set of citations, which you can also see you can see that in the app as well. Then it's you know published onto particle and then a few things can kind of happen after that. One is if someone sees an error or someone sees that something is misleading or you know has a question about it You can flag in the app, you can report a story or or flag a story in the app. We also have humans that are reading and looking through particle every day that can make changes as necessary. The other thing that will that will happen as the story develops and as the the day progresses is if there is any additional coverage about the story that comes in at certain thresholds, the story will be regenerated. So to try to take into account the latest information. So stories should kind of remain up to date throughout the day so long as there are new developments. And again, like if anything looks wrong or isn't quite loptus enough or whatever, we can regenerate it in the back end. And with all of that, I think one of the hallmarks of journalism is accountability. Right. But the way you're describing it over here, being able to know who w wrote the article over here, the author is really the algorithm for all of these summaries. And how are you building trust? for readers to be able to trust these particle summaries so that when a skeptical user is going over there, how are they able to verify all of that information? Yeah, so a couple of things in terms of the accountability within the any story you can also see any previous generation of that story. So if it's a story about something unfolding over the day, so an example of this is that the CEO of United Healthcare shot in the middle of middle of New York City. When that happened, that was all the information that we had. And then new information came in, suspect was apprehended, et cetera, et cetera. You can actually go and see the history of every generation that was published from particle within any particular story. So if you're getting information that like, oh, what might have been unconfirmed that day from There was something that like, you know, was unconfirmed that day that was like later confirmed and you're like, well I thought I I thought I read that that was unconfirmed. Now it says it's confirmed. Like what happened? You can go back and look. The other thing that we're thinking about that's not in the app right now, but I'm really interested in doing is having an editorial note that a human can add that anyone be would be able to see. And one of the reasons I'd love to do that is because we do get a lot of feedback all the time. Feedback on the story and feedback often on the questions and how questions in a story are answered. So just thinking about an example. Yesterday, someone asked a question. It was about uh Trump and Modi. The story was about Trump and Modi, the Prime Minister of India. And it sounds like Modi has been ingratiating himself with President Trump. And someone had asked a question saying like it was a charged question and they said that like I have like a hard time believe that Modi could make himself seem valuable to Trump. Something like that. And the AI responded, well, here is the evidence that whatever strategy that Modi is enacting is working because here are the quotes that Trump has said about Modi and they're all favorable in the last little while. Somebody wrote in saying that the app is actually that particle is being very pro-India biased right now or pro Modi biased right now. What's up with that? And I looked at as a human, or we have humans on the team that that will look into this, I looked into this one and uh I saw that although Som It was an answer that was favorable to Modi. It was not incorrect because the question was about Modi making himself appealing to Trump, and the evidence showed that Trump was accepting it. And I would love to be able to add a note to particle or some way to kind of communicate back with the user to be like, I saw the concern. Here's why we didn't take that question down or you know, we're okay with kind of the response that was given and adding kind of that like human like there are humans looking at this, there are humans reading all of your feedback. And so as much as we try to make the app feel warm and cozy and like as if it's not just like a a cold AI written app. I think it'll add it would add an extra bit of human touch to be like actually there's a human reading your feedback I heard what you said and here's why I'm gonna stand by the answer that that was generated. Or in other cases, here's why I'm gonna take something down. And who's accountable if particle summary has some sort of a mistake or a or a bias like this Ultimately, we take responsibility for what we are what we are publishing. Sometimes those errors are a result of errors that were published by the source articles. And this can happen when especially when information is like not yet confirmed. So things like death counts and stuff that sometimes they're reported to be higher and then they're lower or vice versa and all that kind of stuff. What we've observed that l app only launched in November, but we've been running it for quite a bit longer than that. What we've observed is that And blatant errors like that are very uncommon, especially because we are using multiple sources in order to generate our summaries. And the likelihood that multiple outlets got something very wrong is just very unlikely, especially in the cases of like misprints and stuff or just like basic errors like that. So our summary is a reflection of the amazing reporting that is happening every single day. And that's an advantage to the summary because it is unlikely to to repeat an individual error that individual publisher would have made. And also just like when you look at how traditional media operates, you have this editorial code of conduct, an ethics policy that exists. In the same way, how does that happen for particles AI? Are there guidelines in terms of like avoiding inflammatory language, being able to make sure that it's not just purely driven by any sort of data or bias in a way, how does those kinds of established ways in which trust is built in traditional media like editorial code of conduct and stuff Ucker with particle. So I'll say a few things about that. First of all, we do have a journalist on staff and her name is Ellie and uh ever since she's come on board, she's been helping us kind of solidify some of the standards and editorial conduct and some of the kind of processes that we want to have in place. So that's something that we're going to continue to evolve, but I'm really excited about the direction in which that's going. That's really important to us. People need to be able to trust that what particle is saying is true. But we also provide you a map So if you have a doubt in something that's being said, or even if you don't, we are showing you exactly where the reporting has come from. And you can go straight to those sources very easily, very quickly to check for yourself if you have a doubt. And that's one of the reasons why we choose to look at the entire political spectrum, particularly for political stories, you know, not just focus on the center or not just focus on one side or the other. We really want a diverse set of perspectives there so that you can understand not just what's being reported, but also like how it's being reported. So yeah, that's really important. Also when you're talking about the news publishers, basically the content that gets repurposed from them. The app is creating all these AI generated summaries based on that that could potentially keep readers from just going and directly getting that information from those sources. So how exactly are you compensating news organizations for the work that is done in producing that. I'll say a few things about that. So one, we don't exist without the great journalism that's happening all over the country and and beyond. And we are working towards Finding a way to have an incentive structure that works for everyone involved. And by that I mean not just particle and the publishers, but the users as well and the authors, to the extent that some authors aren't part of publishers and whatever. So that's like really, really important to us and that's something that's that we are working on. We have partnerships with several publishers and that information is available on our website and go take a look with all the publishers that we have partnerships with. And that is a program that we're also expanding. And and we have someone who in particle is in charge of our media partnerships. We've dedicated resources to this. And so that's something that's like really important to us as well. We're early days, but I feel pretty confident that we are going to figure out the model that can align incentives really well. We think that the user experience for consuming the news and keeping up with what's happening has degraded so much over the last, I don't know, decade, fifteen years. And users are getting left behind and they avoid news and the people who are voting in this country, their incentives are the ones that have been that have been ruined the worst. in terms of this whole ecosystem. So the most important thing for us is to create an experience that can re-engage people. Bring them back into being informed, again, meeting them where they are so that they can bring news back into their lives and uh doing that in a way that is sustainable with the whole ecosystem. And I'm excited that you're talking about putting audience at the center of that and bringing them into that conversation. One of the biggest things that I'm seeing is a lot of intermediaries coming in between the news publishers and the audience. Particle is now one of them. You are compensating publishers in a way But you have competitors, I would say. Chat GPT kind of does the same thing, perplexity, everybody is able to summarize news. They are not all necessarily compensating publishers in a way. So how are you seeing the whole business model for news publishers being a sustainable one in the AI era? Because Here it's seeming like the real value of the content is the data that newsrooms are providing. So is this like a new way in which business the business model is? Is a new stream of like news as a data as an API? for aggregators like particle? Yeah, so I think this is a really interesting question. We're at such an interesting inflection point with AI and information that it is really difficult to predict, I think, the future here. So I'm gonna give my thoughts on it with the caveat that like I feel like there's this mountain, this AI mountain ahead of us that we cannot see over because we have no idea how to imagine anything on that on the other side of that. And like my daughter who's just about to turn three, like her life and the way she consumes information is gonna be completely different than anything we could possibly imagine. So with that caveat in mind I think we are going to see new business models emerge. Right now, the entire monetization ability of the internet is dependent on eyeballs, eyeballs and clicks. And everything has been hyper-optimized to serve that. Everything from clickbait titles to how a page is laid out to how stories are written for some publishers, how the story is even written is all optimized for that. And of course, as we just mentioned a moment ago, the user is the one who gets left behind there because they've got these horrible experiences that they have to go through in order to just get like, you know, certain pieces of information. When An AI is going to do one when when the AI is ultimately going to do more reading than the humans, how do we monetize the AI's eyeball, essentially, is like an important question. And how do we like bring that monetization, you know, how do we complete that loop? between the user and and then who needs to collect that money at the end of the day. So a lot of startups have been cropping up trying to solve this problem. One of them is is Tolbit, who's is a company that we work with who are providing exchanges and a marketplace for you know monetizing content. monetizing the access to content and they have like a bunch of other you know tools in their suite as well. There are other companies that I'm seeing that are developing text ads. that go into the AI output. And so I don't know like how that ends up integrating with with end user products, but those are also interesting new ad formats that are being created here. I think what we'll begin to see is There's gonna be maybe some different categories of information. I want particle to reflect this as this continues. There's going to be the facts that people need to understand a story. And perhaps those ones begin to behave in the way that you suggested, Nikita, which is like maybe those are more like APIs than they are how they're presented today. And then there is analysis. And analysis is not just super important. It's also the most entertaining part of news. is to understand like how you think about it, how I should be thinking about it, and what we should be doing about it. And the analysis, I think we'll see those formats continue to evolve. Podcast has become a major part of analysis Newsletters have become a major part of analysis. Of course, we also see analysis and opinion pieces and all that kind of stuff on the traditional platforms as well. But what's been dangerous And is also an opportunity with people getting their news through analysis only, that is where like the bias can come in. And then if you're doing that in an algorithmic way That's where literal brainwashing can come in. And so being able to separate the facts that are agreed upon versus the analysis and the interpretations and the, you know, where all the good stuff is, I think is a really important part of how we parse information. And that's something that I'm really interested in particle reflecting and maybe that in turn will impact the way in which that data is created as well. API versus long form audio or text or whatever. And you're actually one of the first people I'm hearing who's working with toll bit for news is that. Can you talk a little bit more about how that partnership it works? So early days, of course, as as it is with with all these things, but We have uh one major publisher that we work with through Tolbit, which is Time. Tolbit is also new and they're they're uh ramping up their suite of publishers and I believe as it was reported. The transaction between particle and time through Tolbit was kind of like the first of its kind, like an online access, licensed access, like exchange transaction. And I'm we're really excited about more of that kind of innovation in this space. I think as particle, we have many challenges. And as I mentioned before, like our primary challenge is Can we create a user experience that re-engages people with the news and returns it to their daily habit? We have all sorts of other challenges that go hand in hand with that. One of which is How can we build like a sustainable incentive model for everyone involved? And to the extent that folks like Tulbit and others, how Can solve much of that problem for us so that we don't have to be the innovators on that side. That helps us focus on the user But because all of these things are still nascent, we do have to focus on all of it. But uh I think it's really exciting, kind of the the space of what they're doing and But Maybe that ends up being how information is passed around, or maybe that's going to be a new way, but I think innovation is needed in this space. And so I'm I'm excited about folks that are innovating there. So as you're innovating for the user experience for news, does that mean particle is basically the end all the be all destination for news in the way you're curating it? Or is is an objective of it also to be sending back traffic to publishers through that. Yeah. And so I'll go back to kind of how we look at particle for the everyday user. I think have particle being a place where you start Because it's so personalized and because it gives you this kind of breath, this kind of like top-level view of what's going on, it's a great place for people to start. And then we can provide you a map of how to go deeper in the stuff that you're pretty interested in, in that map. we can send you directly to to the publishers. And hopefully that's like high quality traffic because they've already expressed the users already expressed a pretty high interest in that in that story. But yeah, we want to fix the situation where either you don't read the news or if you want to get a couple of perspectives on it, you have to go to websites that you'll never go to. If you watch CNN and you read you read the Wall Street Journal or, you know, whatever You're probably not going to go to Foxnews. com to get the other side. You're probably not going to go to Breitbart. com to get the other side. But as a result, you are getting a single lens view of and a single lens perspective of what's going on. And it's just too much work to do anything else. And you can't expect that of people. They're busy. Everyone's busy. So we want to be that map for you. We want to quickly get you to what you care about the most And for anything that you want to see further, we will send you exactly where you need to go to find out more information about that. And since you launched in November, have you been seeing any data on how often particle users actually click out to read full articles? We do. I can't share that information right now, but I will say that we're pleased with the click-through rate. And the partners that we do share that information with have been, I think, pleased with that click-through rate as well. I'm also quite curious to get into this other topic with the partnership that you all have with the LA Times. And another part of that is you're not just building these news experiences. But then tools to help publishers like the LA Times with their opinions in their opinions column. And can you talk a little bit more about that feature, the insights feature that you've been working on over there? Yes. So particle powers the bias meter in the insights feature, which for the opinion pieces on LA Times will give a rating of whether something is is determined to be center, left of center, left, right, right of center. And that'll get displayed on their website alongside the opinion piece in in the in insights section. This was really interesting to us and something that I feel is really valuable to the user and the reader because we Live in a country right now where it feels like it's very difficult to get ideas across the aisle. Everything has become very much partisan and with party lines. And if you're a left-leaning person and if someone from the right expresses an idea or something, there's almost no way to cross that. that chasm. And one of the things that I think is really interesting about the bias meter is it is it's run on the content, not the person who is writing it. And so you may agree with something someone is saying and perhaps be surprised that that is in fact a right-leaning view, a classically right-leaning view, or a classically left-leaning view. So here's an example Someone had wrote an opinion piece in the LA Times about Andrew Tate. And Particle has had rated it as being right of center That might be unexpected because you might think that an anti-Andrew Tate piece would probably be left-leaning, but in fact this was an anti-Andrew Tate piece that was right-leading. So why is that? Well the author was bashing Andrew Tate and talking about he is not Christian. He is not embody Christian values and you know gave a pretty long dissertation on or in-depth dissertation on why that is. Now you might read this anti-Andrew Tate thing and be like, I agree with that Me and the author are on the same page here. And then you'd see this label that's like, actually, if you're like this is a right-leaning perspective that I agree with something that is classically right. even though I'm a left-leaning person, we need to find more of these moments. We need to find more moments where we agree left and right. Republicans and Democrats, in order to bring us back together. It has never been more polarized in this country. And it kind of feels sometimes like we're at point of no return. We have we live in two different Americas. And I fundamentally believe that that's just not true and that we need to focus on the things that we have in common. And so to me, this bias meter and things like this are ways for people to lower the temperature of a conversation, focus on what is actually being said and why and find commonality between both sides. And so this is specifically just the bias meter on the insides that particle powers. Because I feel like the whole other controversy that the other times came about for this particular feature was also the AI generated views that they were having showing the other side of it. And one of the key ones also it was like sanitizing the KKK's views. to make it sound like it was just of white Protestant ideology and really diminishing the levels of it. And that it is separate from what particle was doing in a way. That's right. That section is powered by perplexity, not by particle. By perplexity. That's right. Particle does have an opposite sides feature within the app, and that is rooted in the particle's story which has many sources. I'd love to talk about how that adds richness to the particle story so that you can see what are the different viewpoints on a particular story and what are the arguments for them. So that's available within Particle. That is not the piece on the LA Times. So that's a separate thing that you all have on particle, which is showing the different sides to stories. That is different, yeah. And that is only based on, if I'm trying to understand this right, based on sources and content. that is coming from left and right leaning, not necessarily being generated by AI. It is generated by AI, but it is using that source material as as the grounding for those generations. Okay. Because that was a very interesting thing of what happens when AI can go wrong, right? And the lessons that can when you're putting AI into production, where things can go wrong and how that happens. So a key thing about how do we when you're building all of your products, how are you sort of thinking through the worst case scenarios and preparing for it? And when a product fails, how do you prepare for the worst case scenarios for particle? The way we approach a lot of this is that we try to avoid asking the AI to just make stuff up Our goal in using AI here is to leverage what a human might otherwise do, which is to look at the source material and summarize or organize or make it easier to read, simplify the language, et cetera, et cetera. We try to to avoid situations where we're asking the AI to like come up with stuff because that's where things can go wrong. So from our perspective, as much as we can source and cite where anything came from. It means that again, we are a reflection of the reporting, the great reporting that is happening. And so if there is something controversial or if there is something spicy that is being reported on, then we will reflect that controversially and the spiciness will be reflected. but it is grounded in what high quality human journalist has purported. That's like by instructing the AI to like use real coverage As its basis for what it's being asked to do, that removes like a huge percentage of the possibility of it going like completely haywire. That's why in general you open the particle app right now, you're not gonna see the AI gone wild. It's like pretty run-of-the-mill generations of like, you know, you what you would expect. It's just it's done in a way that's like much more easily digestible and simplified and and all that kind of stuff. But in terms of like, okay, well, what are the contingency plans? If something goes wrong, we have built in all of the human controls that we need to either pull something down, regenerate it, change it, all that kind of stuff. So we have full control over the app At all times, which is obviously very important. That shows the importance of grounding that information and the way you've built it out is building out that entire technical architecture that is able to make sure you're even checking it in real time and allowing you to scale that summarization that's there in a way. But one other thing I'm really curious about is the business model from the user side of particle How does Particle's business model look like? And I know you're currently supported with WC funding. Can you talk a little bit more about how does Particle make its money? This is a good question. We're still so early in this journey, and so monetization is not something that we're immediately focused on. We have discussed internally all of the things that you might expect, you know, premium subscription. advertising, etcetera. I mean, I think advertising and you know, we'd want to do in a way that, you know, doesn't degrade the experience, of course. Makes sense uh if we reach a certain scale, you know, we're still early, we're getting started. That it would be, I think, premature to try to advertise when you know you don't have that scale yet. Premium subscription is something we've also been thinking about again. We're still early in this journey and our our focus right now is still kind of like user experience and product market fit and all that kind of stuff and distribution. getting the word out there. And we've got a bunch of features that we are working on and building and improvements and all that kind of stuff. So we're super focused on all that right now. But of course we've got our eye on what future monetization could look like. It's obviously going to be extremely important part of this because we can't build that incentive structure and that ecosystem that we want without a revenue source. But uh, you know, we're lucky, I think, to have the VC funding that we do to give us the time to figure that out and really nail it. And uh That's uh one of the beautiful things about being in Silicon Valley and and you know, surrounded by all sorts of people that really encourage entrepreneurship to give you that chance to figure out the product first before jumping into monetization. But the whole thing with news aggregation also we've seen quite a few of these smart news apps. fail before artifact which was one of my beloved apps I loved it it became a part of my life and then it shut down And it was quite similar in mission to what Particle says, the personalized news, the AI summarization, and yet it struggled. And I know when we spoke before, you said that they started you think before AI took off and giving it its time And particle is just AI native as a way. So how do you think particle is different and like the secret sauce that will help particle survive? So I think Article is an AI native, so we can leverage AI in ways that I think is easier than having to kind of do that after the fact. It's like so deep within our pipeline and and so integrated with everything that we do. So that gives us an advantage there. And I think we are starting from a small place and just looking to grow and improve. We don't have like uh a billion user app that we are having as a frame of reference of what success might look like. So I'm sure that makes a difference as well. News will probably never be Instagram, even if uh you know you have two of the most incredible founders in the world working on it. We're super mission driven with particle. Both Marcel and I have like really strong feelings about how we can improve the way people consume information. And that's something that we've been thinking about for a long time and we're so hyper focused on and really thinking about it from the user perspective. And I hope that people can feel that when they use particle. I hope that that comes through as I'm, you know, as I'm talking about it. And I think that that will make a difference in terms of how people use the app and their relationship with the news. So we're kind of approaching it from that perspective We don't want to just be a traditional news aggregator. We want to bring not just the facts or the links or whatever. We want to bring that analysis in there. We want to We want to highlight the good journalism that's happening all over. So we're taking a stab at it. Believe me, when I when I was fundraising, that was a question a lot of people had. A news app really, you know, what's gonna make particle different than everyone that came before it? And I really think it's just like we We just love this so much. Like this space is exactly where we want to be working and we think that there is a huge unmet need. from users and the way they and their relationship with the news, especially today. And it's so important. So we are committed to solving this problem. And one of the key things I think when you're talking about users meeting them where they are and letting them be in control of the news and giving that user control is the issue of filter bubbles that pops up because of the personalization. That's one of the key challenges that all newsrooms who are integrating personalizations are dealing with. And so that's a very delicate balance in terms of showing them what they need to know, but also what they want to and how are you dealing with that particular problem? Yeah, so the way we're approaching it is when we think about personalization, it's very much topic-based. So you're interested in politics or you're interested in sports or you're interested in, you know, finance or whatever. And even within those, you know You're interested in finance, but you're really only interested in these five ticker symbols. Like that's the kind of personalization that we want to be able to like hyper focus on. But what we won't do is allow you to choose the publishers that are included in a summary generation, for example. Because that's where I think you can get yourself into a cycle or, you know, a situation where you're only now hearing from only f hearing from the left or only hearing from the right. or only hearing from publishers that tend to sensationalize more, things like that. You know, we're committed to if you're interested in a particular story, we're going to show you all of the coverage that we have about it. And that has not been uncontroversial. I used two negatives in there, but that it comes with it comes with some controversy. We have people write in being like, I don't want to see things from insert your publisher name here. And we tell them like that on principle, this is this is the stance we've decided to take. And we think it's actually really important. You don't have to agree with it all, but I think it's important for you to understand. what's being said on the other side and why. So this is something that I think we've seen a lot of in the last election. I think that people on the Democrat side were surprised by the results of the election. And I was not surprised by the results of the election. One of the reasons was because I had particle. Now we hadn't launched at that time, but I was fortunate enough to to have particle because what I saw when I s looked at political coverage is that there were a lot of stories about immigration and the economy. Immigration the economy, immigration the economy, immigration the economy. When I went to my other other areas where I got news, I saw none of the inner immigration and economy subjects. And if I did, they were so buried That the algorithm was not promoting those things there. And then I think people were surprised when, as it turned out, immigration and the economy were how people voted. That's what, you know, all of the exit polls said and and all that. It's so important as a voting person, even if you don't agree with everything going on the other side, to understand what's going on. On the other side. And that was because Particle was being able to pull in the news from different sources and summarizing those viewpoints in a way. Yes. Well uh d the stories were being written in your left leaning left leaning publications about that. So those stories ended up in particle. They're being lit written about from the left and from the right, and those stories end up in particle. But if you go to an algorithmic website, social media website here, insert your favorite social media website, they're ranking those things in a way that that's being pretty buried from you. And maybe even on some publishers' websites, depending on the editorial stance they decided to take, they weren't focusing on those issues. But Particle is not going to use how important a publisher thinks a story is in our ranking algorithm. So as a result, you know, I saw those stories in particles all the time. So what goes into the ranking algorithm? Is it the person uh the person's interests? So person's interests, so you know, uh from a topical perspective, politics, etc. , etc. uh recency, so we want the feed to feel fresh and new, so new stuff is is higher ranked. There's uh some influence of what we call the kind of acceleration of a story. So If something is developing and a lot of people are writing about it, you know, across America in a certain amount of time, like we have like a formula that that can kind of see that a story is taking off from multiple places and then that will affect it as well because that's probably something that's noteworthy and newsworthy. There are also kind of like smaller, more traditional signals that go in there around you know, if something is particularly popular on particle, that'll get uh factored in. And then of course things like, well, you know, you already read this story, so we're gonna, you know, heavily downrank it if you've already read it, things like that. And with your experience building products within the tech industry and now you're building this news app. I'm quite curious what advice would you have for those who are building AI products? in the news industry for the first time. What lessons have you learned so far from your founder journey? Oh man, so many things. I mean I despite having worked at Twitter for a very long time, I was there for over a decade and thinking about a lot of the problems with, you know, how we service information to people and and all of that kind of thing. And having worked with in doing uh all of that working with the press doing interviews or demos or all that kind of stuff. I was not very familiar with the corporate side of all the publishers, which is, you know, the folks that we talk to to, you know, do partnerships and deals with and stuff. So that was like a whole new world for me when I stepped into that arena and a very small one and you know everyone knew each other and and all of that. And so that was that was interesting to me to see the dynamics there of you know how publishers think and what's important to them and all of that. And also how that differs from what the journalists even that work at those same publishers and you know how those priorities and incentives might be different as well. So that was definitely it was a fascinating thing for me to go into that part of news. I feel like I was on another side of news for so long and this was like a new side of news. With working with AI, I mean, it's just been incredible the speed at which AI has developed. And I know everyone will say that, but like, you know, we were blown away by ChatGPT 3. 5. at the end of 2022. And now I wouldn't dream of using ChatGPT 3. 5. Like that's just such a terribly old model that's gonna, you know, not do anything of any value. And that changed basically very fast And even now, I was just meeting with some of the folks on the team. We've been running these benchmarks with using like a little crossword. I've been running these like solving benchmarks with you know all of the modern models. And you know, Gemini 2. 0 Flash historically did perform pretty poorly, but Gemini 2. 5 has just blown me away and has blown away all of the other benchmarks and the models and I was like, I feel like I'm right now I'm in a honeymoon period with Gemini 2. 5. I'm like using it for everything now. Like anything that I was using Claude or GPT for before I'm just using Gemini 2. 5, but like I can guarantee you in two weeks I'm gonna be like this sucks. None of these things do what I want it to do. When's the next model coming out? And I feel like the human ability to just adapt. to what is now normal is hilarious. It's insane. We live in a completely unprecedented age of information technology and we basically take it for granted at any given moment. Sure, sure. And it's the rapid speed at which it's all evolving. And it makes it an exciting time, but also sometimes can be intimidating who are might and the consequences of it because We I don't think we're prepared as a society of what what couldn't happen. Yeah. And I feel like it's kind of a blind spot, like I said earlier, like we have no idea what's on the other side of this. Absolutely. You've answered a lot of the questions I've had about particle and the way it's been working. And it's been very interesting to learn a lot about it. But I always love to hear the more human side of How AI is making an impact on your life. And so somebody who is living, breathing AI as a result of building an AI company, what does your AI use look like? How do you use it in your life? I use it a lot. It's replaced search for me for a lot. I feel like nowadays I use search to find websites, which is what search was originally used for. So, you know, I need to go to like Anthem to like get a statement or something and I'll use Google so that I can get to the Anthem website because I don't know what the Anthem website is. Is it Anthem. com? Is it Anthem dot or anthem blue dot something else? Who knows? It's funny that Google search has really just turned into a website directory for me and it's all come full circle and then everything else is, you know, Chat GPT or Claude. Or Gemini now, because I'm on a Gemini kick. And I use it for everything. Recipes, use it for a lot of recipe stuff. Use it for just asking random stuff that I would otherwise previously Google I mentioned my daughter, she's almost three. For every single one of her birthdays, I have used an image model to create the like invite. of her doing something. I And so this every year it's like looks nicer than the previous year because the models have updated. That's a good benchmark for you. Yeah, exactly. The models are improving every year. How will it be in if she's 15 Yeah, exactly. I like using image models for like small personalized things like that because I feel like it adds like a a little touch that people appreciate But you know, there's still things that I don't trust it with. And I think it's interesting that, you know, maybe the next generation won't feel this way or maybe the models will just get better and I'll stop feeling this way. But like I don't trust it to do like restaurant reviews. You know, I was in New York last week and I was like looking for Italian or whatever and I I don't trust the LLM to give me the I feel like it will not do an exhaustive search. So I think that's where I lose trust in it. I feel like it'll do a search for like the top five and then it'll just like present here's five and I'm like, mm, I wanna see more than that. Like I I'll use Google for that so I can get a much more exhaustive search, go to Yelp and dig in and you know, see what people are actually saying about the place and all that. Maybe you'll have to use deep research for that and then give you that 10,000 word report on your restaurants in Italy. I mean for academic purposes that sounds great, but I just do not have the time to read that. Well, Sarah, this has been so insightful. And thank you for being so open and sharing more about the journey building particle and the lessons and how it works. And I wish you all success for how particle evolves. You're really early on in your journey, so I will be very keen to see how it shapes up to be Thank you, Nikita. Thank you so much for having me. It was great to chat. That was Sarah Bickfoer, the CEO of Particle. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy, and this is Newsroom Robots.