This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Markus Franz, the Chief Technology Officer of Ippen Digital, one of Germany's leading digital media networks, operating more than 80 online news and media portals. We recorded this episode live at the Digital Growth Summit in Stuttgart, Germany, where Marcus joined me on stage for a conversation about how he's reimagining journalism. Marcus leads IP and Digital's Incubator Lab where he and his team experiment with new ways publishing and AI-powered experiences are evolving In this conversation, Marcus shares insights from the lab's experiments and how he's rethinking the newsroom through multi-agent systems. Voice first interfaces and his vision for an ambient AI-powered newsroom where human creativity and AI tools work side by side by side well hello everyone and thank you so much for joining us for the live podcast recording of News. robots. I am very excited today to be talking to Marcus Franz. He is the Chief Technology Officer at Ith and Media. And I would say Marcus you are doing some of the most experimental work in media that I am seeing right now. and all the conversations that we have had recently about just how you're looking at multi-agent system, just the way in which not just the workflow of your newsroom, but how audience are going to experience. And when I talk about let's reimagine what journalism is and build it with the tools of of today's time, that's exactly what you're currently doing at EpenMedia and experimenting with it. So I'm very excited to get into all of this. Marcus, can you just start off by maybe just telling us about Epen Media and what is the lab right now? So yeah, uh thanks for having me. Even with the audience here. So IPM Media is one of the bigger media groups in Germany having local publishers. and national publishers in the group. Um it's about sixty tenants on our platform, so Ibn Digital is the digital arm I would say to providing the technology. So and our DNA at the beginning is that we are strong a strong focus not only on journalism on the other side technology. So because we see the internet, the internet is technology. And what we wanna do at the beginning, because I'm 16 years in in this company and we have with Jan. Jan is the CEO of Epen Digital Epen Media. We have this dream to create a lab. Because you said that today in your talk, we have to experiment a lot of more stuff. This is we we created the lab about a year in the past. And what we're doing in the lab is, because everyone is talking a little bit about innovation, but if we look at innovation, there are three parts where you can innovate. So what we are doing is a sustaining innovation, yeah, is with existing customers we are getting our products better. and so on and the focus of the lab is not uh sustaining innovation because we have teams uh doing that and they're making a great job. But the lab has the strong focus on transformative innovation means you have existing customers and try to transform them into new products, for example, voice. Because voice is this interface for the future. And this is where we uh look how voice is adapted into the newsroom or voice is adapted. with our readers and customers. And this is a more the the area of transformative innovation and the Champions League I would say is disruptive innovation. Disruptive innovation for me that will speak later on the topic is the whole area of agent systems or especially multi-agent systems. Can you describe what agents and multi-agents mean for you? Because I think this is there's a lot of definitions going around and to help people understand a little bit more, what does an agentic system look like in your newsroom? Yeah. If you ask five people what what an agent is, you get uh seven answers or something like that. So is uh right now it's a little bit fuzzy. What is an agent? Um but an agent is he can act. on your behalf or not on your behalf. This is the main difference. And this kind of area is Changing so fast, we are learning even from the Frontier Labs what they are doing, what is feasible. And what we learned is there is not this super agent and can do anything cooking your coffee writing your article generating videos and so on but as We as a team, uh in your team you have specialists, right? They come making the best social posts, they're making the videos, they're writing the best articles. And this is a multi-agent system. So where you have a manager or supervisor agent, and this agent is delegating subtasks to specialized agents. And uh this works quite good um but it's an uh really really early uh way um to think about And you are we're pre-aligned in thinking about voice as a next big interface. And I talk a lot about that for the audience, but you're also experimenting it with the newsroom side, how that's gonna change how work is happening. So can you talk to me more about how you're seeing voice as that big interface? Yeah absolutely. So imagine that voice you speak before you can read. Right? So voice is the naturalest communication form. So and what we see in in the newsroom is even if you have some kind of dashboards and and you're figuring out how is my article performing and so on you need some kind of knowledge where's the dashboard where I have to click and in onboarding and get as soon as possible and an answer, voice is is the thing. Hey, can you tell me how is my article performing? And you get a voice response. directly, even for younger editors, it's for the onboarding processes. It's quite good. On the other side for customers, yeah you do you mentioned that today we will see that In the future, because the technology is getting better and better and cheaper and cheaper, it is software, yeah, you can ask And and give natural question per voice to your article. Hey, I don't understand it. Can you explain this topic a little bit more or this aspect a little bit more? And why is voice so so important? Is because If you look in the future and looking into into the physical world, so the robots or human reads will come, that's for sure, and you don't prompt them You will will ask, hey Robert, uh can you do this for me or that for me? So uh voice is a uh huge area and there is another month where we see a next model and and this. And by the way, um Google launched last week, I guess, a new model. So if you're familiar with with uh retrieval Rug systems where you say, Hey, can you give me the article and so on? In in the past you say something, yeah, and it will be transcribed to birds and the words will be assigned to the system. And what is Google doing right now is that the intent uh you don't have this extra step transcribing your voice to words and sending words onto a system. It will be all done in one model. So the model has a better understanding what is your intent because words is sometimes ambiguous um it's not clear uh what you mean with with that but if you can talk and the machine understands your intent more and more you're getting better and better results. And so you're talking about all of these different experiments that you're able to do now with this. Can you talk to me a bit more? Let's get practical in sense of what does this experimentation roadmap look like? And you're a small team working on this. So how are you driving that innovation How we drive innovation is is clear. So I have to uh say one word about the lab. Yeah, because what we are doing in the lab and we are a tiny team, about four or five people, are mainly technical people, to be honest. Uh we are looking in the future. Yeah. So we are looking into topics are not yet ready for the mainstream newsrooms, but we have to look in the future. And Voice we started so at the beginning of the year to experiment. with voice, with all the challenges from voice. And we have a little uh team for product discovery where we think about okay, there is this new technology. So it's mainly a technology-driven lab. And we see, hey, there's a new technology, it's called voice AI. What does it mean? Yeah, is it feasible right now? What are the challenges? How can we use this kind of technology to improve, and this is what I mean with transformative innovation, to make our work better, our lives better better to minimize our cognitive load at the end of the day. So it's mainly driven, it's technology driven. So because we have in our company another team, it's called the AI team. And they're working more closely with the editors, with the newsroom, with the product team, and the lab is looking a half year into the future if I can say that. So all of these are still in this experimentation stage. What is actually in production right now? So what is in production right now is our AI studio. where you can work with different kinds of models. Yeah. Because I believe that we are living in a multi model frontier world. So you have Anthropic maybe for writing because they have uh better skills or Gemini to understand our videos more and more And and we're building there a platform where we centralized for every employee in the company and can work with that kind of technology. And what we are doing with this AI studio is not uh giving the this platform to the the whole company. Uh we will extend that platform And this is what I show today a little bit it's not so seeable. And the podcast is how does it look like? How does it look like if you're not chatting anymore? And How does it look like if you're working with a virtual team? And this is what we are doing. So every Frontier Lab is bullish about agents, yeah, because the agents work like your virtual body and your virtual team at the end of the day And this is the next big um step to see how we can introduce this kind of virtual teams into the different departments of the newsroom. Can you talk to me a bit more, like elaborate on that? What do you mean by how your teams are going to start working with these virtual bodies? What do you imagine that'll look like? Yeah. So we have right now five or six virtual teams. One team is a little bit more sophisticated is a video team. And this video team has the capabilities um to create videos. but in a team fashion. So you have a director, art director making the script. The script is going to the video buddy. He's doing the video and and and so on. Because what we see and what you already say today is that we have to transform our articles into multi-model experiences. And video is one big area. The second thing is and you have to think about it's a hard word, but What we always doing is that we are socio technology systems, right? So in the in the past you have some kind of software. uh may you're content management system uh but it's just a software and you're working with other people with that software to create something. It may be an article, it may be a video, it may be a report and so on And what we are trying to understand is how agents will change that. And what we see is It's getting more and more into an a agentic mesh, like in your company, if you have some some kind of question and you know, ooh, this guy Is an expert in XOY, I can ask him, and this is what the agents will also do in the future. So we have a video team And the video team will be used by a Netflix team and the Netflix team is generating articles about series and movies. But also use um this kind of video team to create videos from this series and this articles. So the thing is We have to figure it out what is feasible, yeah, to support at the end of the day our daily work. So do you see the teams, the roles within the newsroom evolving as sort of like orchestrators of these AI agents? How are you envisioning that would it be enabled? Yeah, so I have a Clear picture about that. So everyone right now is talking about human interloop. Yeah. Like you are coordinating your agent or your conversational. ChatGPT or writing something, get some feedback back and say, oh yeah, no, that's not that like expected. Can you make it a little bit in this direction or that direction? So this is the area of human in the loop where you are coordinating via the LLMs I would say or the agents. But what will we see is a natural evolving process and I call it human on the loop. Because with this multi-agents, they fulfilling not a task, they fulfilling a job. Yeah? Create this video experience. Create here a content management system and for example. And this is where the agents are running on half an hour, an hour, uh maybe on day, yeah, and you're getting feedback. feedback but you're not steering the agent or holding the hand like babysitting an agent so the agents and the agency of the systems will do more on their behalf and it may that day running half an hour and an hour and you're not steering on your on monitor and see who when when you're finished. So human Interloop will be a part, but also human on the loop. So and I call it one loop, yeah, because you will have different roles. like a coordinator, like a consultant, yeah, where human and machine working more closely together up to an observer. Yeah, where I see oh cool, uh the the agent or the team is finished, I will uh w look over it. All of this would sound talking about very future forward. I would say for a media company especially. How are you dealing with just the way in which the culture changed within your newsroom right now? Because I'm sure when editorial teams hear about that. It's frightening. It can be really frightening to hear my role is changing, my work is changing, my CTO is talking about this entire new forward thinking way about where I am a human on the loop, not the human product anymore in control. How are you thinking about how we bring our teams along and how do we incorporate DR feedback responses in this technology development. I think the company thinking about that I'm crazy or something like that is the feedback that I'm I'm always getting But it's it's it's like with any kind of technology to be honest. Inform and educate, right? But we have to stay ahead of the curve. Yeah, what is more uh frightening is that some other company is doing your business the next day or you're doing the business. in the next day and this is where we have the lab we're looking in the future see what is possible creating some MVPs or minimal viable experience with that kind of technology And then we have the AI team. So and we I work closely with the AI team, and the AI team is informing and educating this kind of possibilities and technology to the whole company. And so how are you currently, I would say, technically, putting up guardrails and thinking about what the guardrails would look like in these multi-agent systems? So that it performs according to your brand's voice and instead of just letting agents go out in the wild? Yeah, that's a good question. So there are two aspects. If you're talking about agents, if you're talking about multi-agent system or we if you're talking about agency right grounding and bounding so the good thing is we as publishers we have a lot of information about our audience about our articles to get grounded answers from from that kind of information base. And the guardrails is where we are steering the agents and say, hey, this is your bounding context in where you can operate, but not further. Yeah. This is what we have to do because it's important that you have that kind of policies and this is For me it's it's a natural process because in your newsroom you have some kind of policies, right? You have some kind of values. And so on, and this is what we have to transform into that multi-agent virtual teams. And in this multi-agent virtual teams, I'm trying to understand what does In your vision, a day-to-day life of a journalist now look like? I have a vision because I'm a vision-driven guy, I would say. What I'm working on is I call it internally, no no it's not internally anymore, about the ambient newsroom. So And my vision is, and I'm a technical guy, I love technology, to be honest, is that technology soft and hardware is around us, right? Imagine that if you have here a little voice, voice gear, and I can talk with them if I need it. So it's it's surrounding us, supporting us, augmenting um us. So and you have the possibility uh with this kind of technologies to have a second ease, a second uh brain, uh second eyes. So yeah, it's like uh ambient newsroom is is the big big vision behind that So you have like this ambient body with the journalist basically as they're out there in the world reporting, doing their research, preparing for their interviews, you see that Absolutely. I mean the most thoughts that we have they popping up in our brain, right? And imagine that you have just a button and say hey I got this cool idea. What does it mean? Yeah. Can you research um for that and give me the response or the results on that device or this this device So and we we will see that even OpenAI is is working on a voice device and individual sitting in some kind of room or you have a button o over there, but you can use this kind of technology and even if there's a little bit of fear out there, it's great. It's a great technology and it will transform every area like education. Imagine that your education in the past, yeah, you ask as a child your parents and hopefully the parents has an answer. to your question. So the next thing was in school and hopefully you have a teacher who can answer that kind of question. Now you have that kind of technology and can ask anything and you can say this is doing with my little one. He's a Pokemon fan and I don't have any clue what kind of greatures there are. And I say, yeah, come, let us talk. What kind of great is this? What kind of uh different kind of attacks he has and s and so on But you can with voice for example ask every question and get immediately an answer. And that's pretty pretty interesting and These frontier models are mixtures of experts. Your mental model about that is this is a room of Novel scientists. Yeah, you can ask anything about physics, about coding, whatever you can imagine, and and you will get a good answer. direct physical environment has as possibilities so yeah I'm I'm really really keen and and bullish about that technology because it will change everything and we see this not only in publishing, education, health, and so on and the speed is quite ridiculous. Yeah, how fast things are changing and it's not to be honest, not getting slower. Again, I wanna go back to this voice to action model because I find it one of the f few newsrooms that I know is like very actively experimenting with this. And have you experimented it with the journalists? trying this out, what has their reaction been to it when it's able to do this voice to action? So you will have always two answers. Yeah, with every kind of new technology and this transformative innovation is I don't like it. Yeah. And oh cool. I work with that. So and there are a lot of challenges. Yeah. If you have a a bigger desk, yeah, you have a noisy environment, you have to deal with that So we have both um we have some kind of critical question, what's is always good um to ask critical questions, but we see younger editors are more open to this kind of technology. And this is what we see in every kind of figures. Yeah that the younger people are using more chat GPT and and so on and so on. And for us it's important that we have that kind of technology in the future for for younger editors of a little bit of different mindset because they using this kind of technology more naturally. You will always have both. Yeah. But if you see the benefits and I don't have to open my notebook and open a URL and uh going into this dashboard I can say hey on my way back home how is my article performing? Yeah. And the thing is you can have a conversation then. Hey, what kind of audiences are reading my article? Why do I have a bounce rate in my third paragraph um of the article? And you get a teacher on your side. Yeah, you're a body on your side and then that's quite interesting. I wanna add my own experience with this about what is is I I think I showed Ask Nikita, which is the audience facing wise experience for a New Thrink Robots podcast, but we have an internal facing one that I've been using since the beginning of this year where I feed it all of my notes, my thoughts, and everything or conferences that I go and every learnings that I have, I feed that into it. And It sounds weird, but I have a conversation with myself because it's trained on my voice there. And it completely changes the way in which I think, the way in which I work, I feel more original in the way in which I'm thinking as well, because I'm not drawing on Chad GPT's knowledge. I'm drawing on my own insights, my own knowledge, my own research and understanding of what's happening in AI and technology. And like anything, I think I'm more of a voice person. I just go out on walks and ever since the voice technology came out, I've always been it was first Pi, then ChatGPT, talking to AI And now I talk to an AI that is completely trained on my set of notes and knowledge and I can think about what strategies, what products the way in my watch my talks should be and it's changed the way in which I work. But it I think it's a whole learning curve as well because at first it's an awkward technology. How do you just talk to an AI and get it to talk back to you? Right? How are you dealing with those kinds of like changes? So look how I'm a technical guy, I love difficult problems. So in the past, what I have done if you're programming something. and you have a bug, you under understand the bug, you have uh this little tiny duck and explain the duck, what you're doing, yeah, and and finding a solution. I Now you have a companion. To break with. But what are you doing right now with with your initiative Ars Nikita is you're building your exocortex. your second brain, to be honest. So it's feeded with your thoughts, it's feeded with your values, with your principles. uh grounding bounding and this one is running on I AI substrate I would say and the biggest challenge is what we will facing in the future is Where does your exocortics run on? Is it a closed company like OpenAI? Is it an open source model is it your brain at the end of the day. This is a fearing me a little bit because I don't see right now a little bit declining the open source world but not decreasing the the Chinese models but even open AI they trying to build is well let me explain that we are started with like a copilot mode. Right, you're asking some kind of stuff in Chat GPT or Gemini or Anthropic, getting some feedback back. It's like Co-pilot, or if you're doing this in in a work environment, is like a co-worker. The next step will be the assistant. This assistant will do a lot of more things for you and acting, but everyone is pushing that in the direction it becomes more and more concierge. He understands you uh better and better, he gets proactively. like Pulse, if we saw that, and becoming your concierge. Um this is where assistance getting more personal and you are building with that kind of technology a relationship. So and we always have to ask, okay, is it really your second brain if it runs on the open AI or Gemini or Google infrastructure or is it a concierge and the assistant of the company? And and this is what I'm thinking about, yeah, how to address that in the future. You bring up a very important point which is dependency on platforms and tech companies and vendor lock-in basically that will end up happening. How do we start to decide and think about where we are hosting our models, which models we're using? Do we go the open source route? You're a technical person. Do you start building the infrastructure, powering it on open source, or do you go with proprietary models? What is your thought? So that we get an early result, we are starting with closed models. So seeing maybe um this task can be fulfilled by OpenAI or Anthropic or Google, but if you see it's feasible we go the next step and if you see a return of invest and try to transform that product or that process into open source um models. And there are quite a bunch of good open source model out there. And it is feasible right now because we are living in a multi-agent world. So in the past it was quite difficult technological um side but right now you have maybe a So like on one example it's called AI Inside Team, it's an AI Inside Desk and he transcribe a lot of stuff and this will be done locally with WhisperX. I don't need a uh closed model for that and you can decide what do I run in in this closed models, what do I run in open weight model or open source models and Divide and conquer. This is always software, right? You have this big problem breaking it down to smaller problems, and then you can decide where to run and which kind of model I'm using. Yeah, because the scope of the task as a narrow down. Yeah, and then you need you don't need the big frontier model for for that a specific task. And this is why uh model A multi-agent system uh getting more and more traction. And it also helps with costs as you're building this agency system, right? Yeah, but uh tokens are then your money. So what we see in the future is no matter what kind of system you're using, you're orchestrating and have some kind of budget and and this is all your tokens. I also want to touch onto another topic, which is about personalization. We talk a lot about personalization of content in newsrooms. It's a lot about which article do we surface for on the homepage and within our websites, for example. But I wanna understand, are you experimenting with anything at the lab in this sort of like what does a future forward thinking way in the way in which you're thinking about what does personalization for news look like there? Yeah, absolutely. So working in in the area of uh recommender system that is a technical word about personalization uh for a lot of time and what we have done in the past was always the same predicting what you want before you want it. So what kind of article do I serve to this audience or for you especially And that's great, it makes sense. But the next evolution will be that I have a multi model. experience. Imagine that. Maybe you're you like to read more text, yeah, you get a textual representation in your recommendation. Maybe the machine understands I'm more like a video person and I get a video recommendation from the same information, yeah, but multi-model depending on your need or your context. I mean text to voice, it's great, but imagine that if you have if you're driving your car, you're not able to read, but you you are can listen to something and you get this kind of information Yeah, true voice. So this is a multimodal personalization um strategy at the end of the day. And with all this that you're talking about and the lab is very experimental, how are you deciding thinking about the metrics that you are looking after to understand is this working, is this not? If it's not working, let's scrap this, move on. How are you basically benchmarking it all? Yeah, depending on the on the use case, um your will have a little bit different um KPIs. But for me the most important KPI is like in the product development, I mean you you reach some audiences. You will activate them and for me the daily active usage is is one of the most important KPI because if the people are using your product It's not that bad. So if they are churning, something is missing or you have to improve your product. For me, always the same weekly active usage or daily active usage. Yeah and figuring out how to improve your product at the end of the day. But this is more than sustaining innovation. But I think about AI is not about to process optimization at the at the end of the day. You can do that and we will do that. But we have to think about with this new possibilities and opportunities. To create new products. Yeah, this is this transformational innovation like your video news report 9 a. m. in the morning. For example, this is this kind of products where I see a big opportunity even for us as publishers. Not optimizing, cost cutting, workflow optimization. Yeah, we we will do that. This is normal. in the business area, but to think about how there's this new technology. What can we do? What kind of products can we build? to keep our readers on our products, not on third party platforms unlike in the past. So it's it's an opportunity for me. We always have to be open-minded and think outside of boxes to use that kind of technology to create new experiences. This is the most gridd thing because even if you're talking about personalization what does personalization mean personalization means one thing It's about your digital experience. Yeah, you want to have a endurable positive state in your mind, oh this was a great experience. And and if if you have this kind uh the likelihood that you come back the next day or the day after the next day because you have a great experience. This is m where I think about products. So it's all about um the experience. And you're in this experimentation stage and in innovation there's a lot of failure as well. So I want to be able to get into that. And according to a recent MIT study report talking about that 95% of AI pilots fail, I think it was normal because what you're doing is building an instrument. institutional muscle memory of how to deal with this new technology. But I think there's a lot of lessons that we can learn from things that are not working that can help others out. What's failed and what have you learned from that I like the question, but I always say what is the difference? That's product development. You're experimenting always. So I have for years built this kind of growth mindset in my teams, this kind of experimentation mindset. Even if you have some kind of machine learning algorithm for recommendation, you will be experimenting. You're adjusting a little bit there, adjusting a little bit there, and seeing see with your KPIs if you're on track. But the thing is, this is just normal product development for me. And even If you're not fulfilling your KPIs, you learned. It's maybe not a win, but you learned Oh, that's not the direction to go. It's not feasible or that the customer's not using this um kind of product. The thing is where a lot of AI initiatives are failing is because they are too big. So my mantra is think big, start small, move fast, learn fast. Building the tiniest possible product out of your vision and get as as soon as possible feedback from the editors, from the customers. It's just normal product of development. So AI is not changing that. AI is changing A lot of stuff because you can build products in a short amount of time. So last week there was this Open AI dev day and there was one node and a lot of people didn't realize that Why are they pushing so fast so many products out there? Because they're using AI coding assistance for their products. So 80 80% with this new app store is done with coding assistance. And this is where they're internally using dog fooding their own products and this is the new future. You can have an idea at the morning and and there's a new benchmark last week from Atropic that the coding assistant can work 30 hours to fulfill something. Imagine that you have in the morning or in the evening an idea your prompting your coding assistance, hey can you create that product? And and the next morning you wake up and and the agent says or the team says it's a multi-agent team says here's your product. Yeah. And you can experiment in this with with your Audiences, yeah. And and this is where you always have to stay curious and this is where things getting more faster. So You can build products, not only the idea, you can so look in the past there was some scribble about your product and then you have some kind of mock-ups from your products. I don't need that anymore. So if I have a strong vision in my um head and I can address that with words or with voice, this is this white coding that I say, ooh, I got a cool idea. Can we this doing that and that and that? and the machine is working on that and you're getting a working software product of out of it. So and you can experimenting. In your newsroom, in with your audiences, um some kind of closed beta test and and so on or A B testing. It's just normal product development for me. And so how are you using AI in your product development right now? I'm using that the so the daily active usage is really high. Using this on a daily basis, researching. for example, but also for coding stuff. Because look, I'm I'm for years in in as a software engineer, but I was not so fancy about the front-end engineering But no right now I can do anything. And this is the new normal that Tiny Teams who has in the past limitations because I don't have this back-end developer is I don't have the resource of that back-end developer or front-end developer or PM or PO, you can virtualize that. So and this is what we will see in the future. Small groups, teams with uh with strong curiosity and a strong will. A strong will to build products, they will build products. And in my opinion, every software as a service company, not innovating, will have a problem. We'll have a problem at the end of the day. So we see a lot of companies out there like for example Manus, it's a tiny team, but they're doing great job, a great product, and and they're doing a revenue. And this is the new challenge what we have in in the future. It's not only the the influencers, yeah. If you uh looking a little bit at the task presentation today, is tiny teams with coding AI assistant possibilities to build totally new products. All of this future that we're talking about and that you're describing, to some in the industry, would seem like we are just buying into a tech-driven narrative and hype that is out to completely destroy us as well. Open AI becoming this and Googles of the world being able to exploit us and our work that we're doing and it's becoming this huge industry force that all we're doing is now saying yes it's inevitable we have to just jump in all into it. What would your response be to them when they hear about this like very future forward multi-genic system that you're talking about So wow, it's a really good question. In our industry I see AI as a big opportunity to offload some cognitive float to some kind of AI system. And with this free time you have the possibility uh to go into your community, yeah, be there in your community, because our group is is mainly uh regional local publishing. Yeah. Get in the community. Be there. Be a human for humans. Yeah. Do the other nasty stuff that you can automate, automate it. Yeah. But be present because humans following humans. at a natural way, um use this kind of possibility to eliminate your routine work. What we have to do Look, I don't like to write emails and I like to like my calendar. I'm trying to optimize that a little bit more to think about what really I'm curious about. And using this time to be present in your community, in your local area, for humans, are human for humans, this is great. So and we have to think about to use this t kind of technology. to give you the possibility to offload routine stuff to the machine because the machine can do that good and then you have the time to get into to your audience, um be there, be present. And so from your perspective, what do you think the conversation in the industry is missing right now about AI? What are we not talking enough about when it comes to this technology? Agents. Agents. Yeah, so because sometimes I have the feeling that we are running a little bit with closed eyes and not not seeing what's happening around us. So It is a technology world for sure. So what happens here is ridiculous. So so look, I'm always was in this kind of technology area. There comes a new framework and new possibilities, blah blah blah blah blah. But right now, so there is not a week After a week with a new disruptive innovation. And one thing, so it's it's announced yesterday, yeah. The next Evolution of LLMs is self-evolving LLMs. So the thing is with LLMs right now in the year 2025, October 2025. is a you train a model, that's it. So this is the world knowledge was the model has. And what Berkeley, I I guess from Berkeley is is the paper, but the Google has a similar paper about that is hm What if we create a model, a foundation model, a base world knowledge, and then let the model self-evolve? over time. What that means is uh ridiculous. So that means that we have a machine that is com becoming more and more in this uh artificial intelligence but he is the model is evolving over time with how to retrain the model. Yeah what takes time and costs And and these models, the self-evolving models will absorb everything out there. Yeah, like like crawling stuff. From the publisher and and so on. And this is where we have to be aware of. Yeah, what does it mean at the end of the day for us personally, but also on our industry I also we also have an incredible group of people here, so I wanna open up for questions as well, because you're saying we're running with closed eyes So if you have any people here in the room, I think one question I also want us to sort of think about is and then if you were to give an advice to, we had a bunch of newsrooms over here who maybe are just starting off with AI. All of this sounds too far-fetched, too ahead for us to even think about right now. What would your response be? This is what I always say, even in my company, be curious. Be open. Yeah. That doesn't mean that you use that kind of technology. It's depending on your values, about your principles, and so on. But we have to be open up your our eyes. And we have to be curious what is happening in our world. What is the next big thing? And like OpenAI with Pulse, it's there. And it's a challenge for us because they have a concierge product right now and um you're getting everything in a closed second world, not belonging to our world anymore. So be curious. Try to stay ahead and always think about technology. How can this technology with our principles and our values that maybe a little bit different from from desk to desk, from company to company, but try to figure out how this kind of technology can Transform and innovate experiences. So working experience, audience experience, and and so on. And don't be afraid to work with LLMs like To be honest, sometimes I work with a LM like kid, just do that right now. You don't have to be be shy about it. It's just a machine. The machine is not judging you at the end of the day. Just try it out, be curious and figure out how that can improve your personal but also um your work experience. So do we have any questions in the room? Yes. Oh it's a live podcast. A life life podcast. Hi, uh Gregor from M HS again. With that big of a shift happening right now, all the things happening, the Gen Tik coming coming our way, do you think we can cope with it within our organizations? separately or do do we need to organize in like alliances across the industry where we work on the same things maybe together in order to be able to to deal with the whole the whole story happening right now? Gregor, really, really good question. This is what I'm trying a little bit more and more that I share my experience in our company, like here in the podcast. And my wish is that we as a publishing industry working more together because everyone is learning. on their journey with their speed and possibilities, but in the future the enemy is not the publisher A or B. That's really clear. The enemy are the technology companies. So what we have to do is uh learn together on that journey, share experience, ask. So I'm always open if you have some kind of questions. try to to ask. And this is my my big wish. Really happy about this answer. Thank you Hi. So as publishers, uh, we are guided by the cookie policy and uh LLM's scrape. How do you look at uh when we have been regulated with cookies and the personalization view that you have for the users because LLMs can do better in that case? Yeah, two things is because is it was a topic um today is scrapers will be there. So the funny thing is Side note Google released last week I guess the Gemini 2. 5 computer use model and Google has this capture test on their own pages. And their own model is Can answer that capture test. So it's over. So it's this cat and mouse game and what we have for for years. And a lot of crawlers are operating in a stealth modus. Even if you have your analytics dashboards, it looks like a uh desktop browser, like a natural human So it's a good question, but I can't answer that question. But the fact is scraping is there. Even if you have some kind of capture test, the capture test and next models and one point That's absolutely important is every model what you're working right now is a legacy model. And the next month or two months, the next iteration of the model is is coming. So they are getting better and better, right? So to be honest, this this uh cookie content is is annoying me personally as a human. How does this look like in our gentic world? We don't know it. right now. But this is a problem that we this is like the question from Gregor, this is what we can do together. What is the standard? Yeah? As a industry, not publisher on their own or this big publisher doing this. As an industry, find a way for really fair usage for agents and our content. Because your next customer, your next reader is an agent, for sure. Exactly. As we're wrapping up, I think we spoke a lot about multi-agent systems. I want to end with one last question. How are you personally using AI in your life? Everything. So what I see on on my personal life is that I'm not googling anymore so often. So for example, if I need a new wash machine or something like that. I ask ChatGPT to do a research. This is my budget, this is how my KPIs is important and not to use so much energy and so on and give me just a report Because this is the new customer journey, what we see. So in in the past and in your presentation, it's what was absolutely clear is I'm just googling. Seeing some some SERPs search uh result pages and a second maybe a click on it. Oh no, it's not going back, click on the next. This journey is will gone. So you will get um results directly. So the thing is I always think about this is In an LLM word, question in, answer out. Um, this is what we are facing. So I'm using this for research, for daily um stuff. for ideas, for coding, uh everywhere where I can use that, I will use that because it's for me it's a Big positive way for my work life integration. Well, I think that is a really great way to also wrap up. I think just for your forward thinking view on media is definitely Very new, I would say, the multi-agent system and how we are thinking about it. Lots of changes that we need to adapt to, ways in which we have to bring our companies forward. to also think about what it means for the way in which rules are going to evolve, but what it means for the business of journalism and the way we do journalism and what happens if maybe we don't adapt as quickly as we need to the possibilities of that. But Marcus, thank you so much for joining me on the News from Robots podcast. And thank you to this wonderful audience here. Thank you. That was Marcus Franz, the Chief Technology Officer of IP and Digital. Thanks to Twipe's Digital Growth Summit for hosting this conversation. Stay updated. With the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This episode is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.