This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. This week's episode is a continuation of my conversation with Runa Yitterberg and Lars Adrien Giske, two journalists pioneering AI-driven investigative journalism at iTromso. In the first part of our conversation, They shared how they built GIN, an AI-powered tool that helps journalists uncover news stories from vast amounts of public data. This week, we explore how their newsroom is preparing for an AI-agentic future, building a centralized data platform for investigative report. Reporting and equipping journalists with AI-powered research assistance to enhance their work. So AI agents are this next big thing. It's predicted that 2025 is going to be the year where we're gonna see a lot of AI agentic systems. And I think that's so important for news because what AI agents basically are this digital assistant. where they can carry out tasks independently once you give them a goal and they're able to go and find information. So it's just I can just think about the possibilities that might be there for journalism and being able to retrieve data, being able to find sources of information that could help predict news items that might be really newsworthy. And so I'm very curious because y'all have been working uh as y'all spoke about the x-ray systems that have been a start for y'all in the agentic infrastructure for news what are the other ways in which you are preparing your newsroom and that infrastructure for this AI agentic newsroom. So what we've seen so far is like to to get back on the agent bit is that they're not production ready as of now Takes a lot of work and there's so many steps where they can fail. And they will. So th so that's a huge challenge, right? So what we're doing now, we're we're holding back a little bit on the agents, but while doing that, we're building infrastructure to accommodate agents. We're we've started work on well this Runa's grand plan or grand vision for journalism. Which is kind of a holistic data platform that ties into all our data sources, collects data from all the sources that we kind of are dependent on as a news organization. Combines that data, analyzes that data automatically, and notifies journalists about relevant news or insights. Like what kinds of data are you taking? Any all kinds of public data as well as private sources of data that you have access to? Yeah, definitely. Like we talked a lot about the Gin platform, and this is a kind of continuation of that. The Gin platform was a pilot, while the data platform was collect From multiple sources like we had filming and planning documentations and public correspondence in Gen. That's like one data source. Then you have property registers, like public property registers, you have tax data, you have company data from public data sources, as well as a ton of private data that we can gain access to or buy. And all of this is like relevant for us. It can be anything from a police log, you know, like an like just a daily notification service from the police to other news sites to public open access data. So everything is hosted in this one repository, that database that y'all are trying to put together. That is the goal of this platform that we're building. We just started building it before Christmas. Yeah, we've we have been working with that project to build infrastructure for uh editorial data. This is uh the data is on uh on a personal level. It has uh data for people them their houses their um income okay we can get that in Norway shareholders, all the um uh executives, directors in the region companies. It's really a lot of uh information that we put into this uh database. It's since it's on a personal level. We've been talking to our lawyers for two years, I think. Two and a half years. to be sure that we uh we don't pilot any GDPR rules, that we can store this personal information. securely. That's important because one dataset could be have very important personal information. When you join that data, it's get even more sensitive. Because you can get so much information about each person. So you have to be very sure that it doesn't violate we we can't violate any laws. And we have to be extremely confident that we can store this data in a secure way. So that's why it's taken so long. to get started and then we also have to have some sort of access control. So we have to monitor which journalists are looking into the database and getting information. So it's uh it needs to be extremely granular, like the control. Yeah, there's so many legal and regulatory compliances as well. And as you said, I think it's very sensitive data once you join everything all together. Yeah. So the a good tip if you're going to build with infrastructure like this is call your lawyer first. That's like the golden rule of AI. development and data journalism is like ca can we actually use this data. Yeah. Because and then we have to um to be able to store this data and also to be allowed to store this data The use has to be editorial. If not we can't store it. As journalists they have a reason to store this data for years, not only for few years but for many years because when you're going to do uh use AI to find patterns and animal in this data, we can g get better and better results, better and better analysis if you have time series. And we're going to do analysis which is not we're not only using generative AI to to uh look into this data to find um the important uh information, important uh news uh stories, but But we're also doing classical AI, like regression analysis. So that's why for us it's important to get hold of long time series. So when we are sending Uh and we get the data through various sources. We can uh we're using APIs, but we're also using uh fire requests. And then we send a fire request. We always send a fire request when you ask not only for the last years of data but for 10 years. Okay. So you can have that time series. And so it's so incredible because this is going to be the place where it's not just like individual FOIA requests or individual data access. But it's going to be like a central place for all of the data that has been gathered by the newsroom that you can go and query for patterns And then you are preparing that infrastructure for AI agents and uh that could be possible down the line. What I envision is like you have all these orchestrated data streams. Right. And you have all the a toolbox of all these different kinds of AI models that you can use, like regression analysis or different algorithms you can run on the data So my my vision is like having an AI or an agentic framework on top of that, identifying what kind of data is this, what kind of analysis can I run on it. And then calling the tools. And then you notify the most of it of the findings. That's kind of like the hope. Like that we're laying the groundwork for that kind of framework So can you give me an example of like how you expect the use case to look like? Yeah, like or we can look at the end goal, for example. If my end goal is having a system that is capable of saying that director A Of company B had to sell their house because Company C went bankrupt. That kind of news notification is incredibly powerful for a journalist. And it's very hard to do right now. It requires combining a lot of different data. So I think that's the magic of data journalism that we can combine these sources. I think it's important what's uh Lars is saying about what is the What is our goal? Okay. It's an editorial goal that we're going to produce more important information to our local community. than we could before. Okay. It's going to improve journalism. It's going to improve our local newsrooms position in the local community. If you're living in Trusa and you're going to find out what's happening in our city, what's the most important stories now? You have to go to Oversight. Because we have that information. So I think that's a way of how we can sort of strengthen our newspapers connection to the local society. That's our vision and goal, and I really believe in it. Why is this sort of data-driven precision journalism, why is it important? What what kind of new services can we give to the local community? And of course it's possible. So it's two s sort of three steps. Okay, we're first we are building the infrastructure with the most important uh data sets which have the most important information to our community. And then they have the journalists or editors. that are that can look through understand the possibility of gathering new information through combining this data. and telling people, giving people new information, new important information. And then we can maybe build when you're building such um assistance. On top of this, they have to be built by journalists for journalists. If you have a developer doing it, they wouldn't understand uh they couldn't do the analytics of the information. So we need to have journalists and editors. which are ordinary ordering this is the assistant we're going to build and then we'll have a developer helping us build it. Sometimes journalists can do it by themselves and Lars can tell more about that later. And then when we have this testing for the journalists, the journalists have built an assistant that are working and we see that it's not hallucinating, uh then they can build a new product, a new service to the audience, the the community, with why so they can themselves try to to to use this new product, ask for that kind of important information. That's a sort of the idea That's so important because I think uh data and that access of making sense of data is going to be one of the key skills that's going to differentiate your newsroom. I think in the AI era, it's also what type of data, what types of sources are you having access to and being able to make sense of that to produce new quality information. That data is going to be what's the differentiating factor that why people would come to you because you have the trusted source of data. And very second most important point, it's built by journalists for journalists. Equip journalists to be able to build their own AI assistance. So I'm very curious, how are you all thinking about that integration of AI? getting journalists to adopt it and build out their own AI assistance. Yeah. First of all, I think you need to get everyone familiar. with the technology. Like at least at a ba basic level, they have to understand the possibilities that it provides to them as journalists. And that's quite a task. And that's something we're working on. As well as building for trust Like with the gin system, it's built where like the the journalists are heavily involved throughout from the first workshop till we have the end product. Like they're they're involved in testing, they're involved in giving feedback, kind of designing the system as they go. And I think that's incredibly important because it creates ownership to the solution. It creates understanding of the technology and it creates like a willingness to adopt. And I want to get into like how are you familiarizing them with AI and what are you talking about the technology? Are they already using it? Has there been a high adoption of these tools Yeah, Jin is a huge success, like when it comes to adoption. Like we have feedback. We rolled it out to all of Laris. That includes like newsrooms with three journalists. They're all over fifty, never touched anything that has to do with AI. And the feedback from there is this is excellent. Like it really, really makes my job easier because I don't have to go into a public web portal. for thirteen different municipalities and look for these documents myself. It's like it's just so clear cut, right? It's very easy. And the system is easy to use because it just replaces one bad tool with a much better tool, which is the web portal is being replaced by the Jin interface. Yep. Then you have um on a another level, because the GIN system is a sort of it's pre-made for the journalist. So They've been part of making it, but then they just use it as another tool, okay? But um then you have uh the situation where the journalists can be part of making a customized tool for their needs. Because it's uh you know it's journalists are very different. And that's a good thing. Because it makes journalism better. You have all kind of people with different backgrounds will have different ask different questions and make different stories. So I think that's really great. And that's why I think it is so important to make customized tools that would strengthen each and every journalist's needs So when we are building assistance, we are sitting the journalists are sitting together with the developers and like a mini workshop, okay? So they're sitting together And saying, okay, I am I have this task. How can we make an assistant that are going to improve the journalism on this specific task? So that's been the way we've been working the last year with uh assistance. Could you give me a breakdown of like so you're a 25 person team, how many of them are editorial and how many developers do you have? Okay, in the data um we call the data table. Okay. It's a small data unit, we have four people, doesn't five, uh which are not part of the we don't have to to um write news stories every day. But we are part of the news department, okay? So we are so the data unit we um Every day we start together with a newsroom at the same meeting. Everyone says what they're going to work with and the developers also have to say, okay, today I'm going to work with this. And that's been a way of getting the developers to understand what is journalism, because journalism is also a specific domain and the developer has to understand and learn what is local journalism. And then we had uh, for example, we had uh in Trunsen now because of uh the climate changes we have, they have a lot of avalanches. And they're deadly. So it was a one developer we had uh discussing at one morning meeting that okay we have to do something more about these avalanches and we have to have a better alert system and a better map So one of the developers said, Hey, I can make a avalanche alert system for you, guys. I think it's very good that we have this very close interaction between the the newsroom and the developers, that the developers are sitting in the newsroom among the journalists. And the and they are sort of marinated into journalism. But that I go for the data desk as well, because it's not pure developer-based either. It's like the data desk itself with its five people, it has a combination of Journalist developer, develop pure pure developer, data analyst with uh urban planning background, and interns. So it's like it's a good mix of people where You have like the journalistic expertise as well as the dev expertise, which I also think is really good. Like provides an additional layer of marination. I love that uh collaboration and just seeing what happens when you put the developers right in the newsroom And because they are able to understand what the problems are, they know how they can build the solutions. And so they are able to suggest that. And you might not even know that this could be possible. And they are able to bring that up. And so continuing in that same way, have you been thinking about rolling out like the next set of tools and a integrating AI within the newsroom? What is that roadmap looking like? We're thinking that hands-on projects are the best way to gain familiarity with new tools. So that's what we're doing. We're we talked a little bit about our city, a project where we highlighted social inequality in Tromsa, using data and combining data. We're continuing that in a new direction because Tromsa is now redrawing its school districts. And that will involve schools shutting down That process just started. That's an ideal way to like, okay, we have a case here. It's gonna be go ongoing for maybe the next year until we have some kind of resolution. or political decision on how the school districts are going to be. There's going to be a public hearing. It's going to cause a lot of debate. This is a great case to start kind of leveraging AI to increase competence. So what we've done is built a new state of the art rag system using an open source project called Cotemon, which is fully customizable, fully extendable. So you can do pretty much anything with the basic solution that you'd like. So describe a bit about what do you mean by what is Cotaimon? Because I think this is going to be a new tool for many people hearing it. Yeah, yeah. Cotaimon is basically a front end for interacting with your own data through a language model. Whichever language model. It's kind of like open web UI if you've heard of that or the ChatGPT interface. And underneath it has some very cool features in the back end that you can like straight out of the box if you download it from GitHub and like render up, you can start using it. then you can customize that backend fully. It's very customizable. And that suits our needs because we need precision tools. What we've seen over the last year is that the open AI platform for developing assistance isn't precise enough. It doesn't have good enough kind of referencing, the citations aren't great, that kind of thing that makes it hard for us as journalists to use it. The same with a lot of the open kind of open access tools that are out there. They're just not good enough. The closest thing you get to a really excellent journalistic tool is Notebook LM. But that's Google. They have control of the data And it's very limited in in that you can only upload like fifty documents or something. That's not what we're looking at. We need like industrial scale on this thing. This is what Cotemon allows us to do, like pretty quickly. Instead of building this all the way from scratch, we could take that as a starting point and start kind of customizing it. to our needs. And since it's open source, you're able to also host it locally on your servers. The data is not going anywhere. You can choose which model to use if you want to use the GPT or a cloud model or run an open source model like Oh llama or mistral. It ties into llama, you can do whatever you want with it. Which is great. It's like really, really good for our needs. Because we do work with sensitive data. So we we built an assistant using that, like a very precise Rag system with excellent citation. You have side-by-side view of the raw sources highlights where with highlighting where the model is pulling its information from. Excellent precision on the actual retrieval. So you're getting the most relevant results, you have re-ranking built into it, and you have the chat next to all this. Like it's amazing. It's really, really good. And it also does graph rag, which is where you kind of map out relationships between entities within your data to give even better results. And you get these entity maps, which in themselves can provide Very valuable insights to a journalist. So we took this and we built the system using all the underlying data that the municipality is using to kind of Shape the suggestion of their new school districts. Everything that goes into their evaluation of the school district districts and how they should look, which is basically like an expert system on Tromps the school districts. So we're going to use that to get people familiar with language models, how to prompt, retrieval. And working with data in this kind of way, which I'm sure can say a lot about as we as we go on. But but that's kind of the tool we developed, and we're making it accessible to all the journalists in-house And they're gonna be using it for a concrete purpose, which is this project that we're doing. And I think that's like this kind of hands on training is and the way to do it. We are a pretty small newspaper. We have uh total editorial staff of twenty five people with all in all. Okay. We don't have the time and the journalists don't have the time in the daily work to use uh half a day of training and half a day of training and half a day of training, okay? They have to train while they are working. And I think that's the best way of using a understand a new tool and understand how to use AI in your daily work is to actually try start using it in project um in journalism which are important because then then it matter. Then you have to be sure that it it doesn't hallucinate. So that's the way we're doing it. That's an editorial decision. The project we have been uh using AI, AI supported journalism now. It's all editorial decisions, many of them made by our editor-in-chief. So school and mean our school or my school is the name of it, the project. That's our editorial Shiv said that okay, we're going to this is going to be our most important project from January to January to June. And we are going to use AI tools. in this project so we can be sure that we get all the journalists on board. It's a decision from our boss and I think it's a good one. And also the other of the tools we have uh developed, all the assistance you have developed, we have developed them um while we have been doing important journalism. I think um developing uh some assistance now the last year. uh on domain specific uh assistance and you've been experimenting with what kind of large language model is best and what kind of open source model should be best and We have tried uh OpenAI, we have tried Anthropic, we have tried Cloud Projects, we tried anything LLM, and we see what they're good at and also the limitations. Uh one big limitation using OpenAI enterprise solution was that because we needed to use the enterprise solution to be sure that we could upload sensitive documents. But it's too expensive for a or a small newspaper. So we couldn't have every journalist on board on that solution. And then we had a sort of a division inside the newspaper that wasn't good. That okay you had some journalists that were could make their own assistance that were and but the most of them couldn't So that was uh we we had to find another solution. And then we used anything LM because it was open source, but um we had a problem with uh the journalist wasn't able to to find the sources to verify the sources in an efficient way. So that's why we ended up with uh Koteman because it's an excellent system. It's In this system you can have the journalists can use it just like ChatGPT. They can they can ask uh just one single prompt, okay, and get some results Then they can upload the documents to the specific uh task. Uh that could be a news story or a small investigation, and they can curie This um make a semantic uh search into that uh rag database. They can also share a database and share their the searches so they can work together. So I think it's um it's the best system I've seen so far. And that's why we're going we're using this now, this platform to to get all all journalists on board. So they each journalist are going to understand better how they can prompt efficiently, how they can they have to understand what is a rug uh what this frag, what this vector database, all journalists have to sort of get familiar with with these new words, okay? I think that uh Before June or before summer, I think we're going to have the most AI kompetent news um rum in Norway, I guess. Definitely seems like. I heard about Cote Mon from you and I've been playing around with it and I think it's just such a game changer. And as as you were saying, because it's hosted locally You only have to pay for when you go and query the ChatGPT model. You're not paying for the ChatGPT subscription. So it actually tends to be much cheaper because it depends on how much you use it And as a result, you can roll it out to your entire company, not have that divide between some people have access, some people don't, and then all of the progress that's happened with AI so far has been like div developers mainly figuring out and hearing from the journalists and now it's truly going to be journalist led because they also have access like to uh to like Cote Mon where they are going to be prompting and figuring things out as well. So that's very exciting. And when you're on this prompting area and topic, this is so crucial for getting the right output from these models, being able to figure out how to get the get the model to give you what you want. And I want to get into from your learnings and insights because y'all have been doing a lot of work. especially for the data journalism tasks over here. What would you say are some of like the key things that when you're talking to a journalist or getting somebody more familiar with the concept of prompting, how do you describe this? How do you talk about this the l from the learnings you all have had? First of all, I try to explain that this is an iterative process. Right. So they don't get frustrated. They like, oh, this was no good. Like it doesn't work. That's often the first reaction from someone who's never touched AI before. Okay, I asked you this, it gave me a shit answer. It doesn't work. I'm never gonna use it again. I say you have to think of this as an iterative process. You have to try again, refine your query. Like you're ideally placed, you're a journalist. Nobody in the world knows better how to ask questions or structure questions or query data or query a source. And you have to think of it like that. Like it's this you have to be systematic and you have to be ever tip. You have to do it like in steps to figure out what works and what doesn't. It's like uh a good journalist would know uh that you have to ask where in precise questions, okay? Don't ask general questions. Don't ask yes or no questions. Yeah, but you should be very um and if you have a task, it has to be very okay, I have this singular task. So we we're trying to tell a journalist that you have to think you have to go back and um be start with simple, easy questions that are that you can get an answer to. And then um of course you can have then you can um have more advanced prompts and you have all this um I guess most of Most have tried already different kind of prompting. We have seen that sadly it matters. The input affects the output We're gonna do the prompting. It really does, especially in rag systems, like we've been talking about. Like it's not a traditional database. You ha context is key. you have to provide the relevant information to get the relevant output, right? Exactly. And so this Kotiumon is basically going to be a rag system where people can put in They're sensitive documents, everything, and then query that. Yeah, we've been working um pretty much uh with uh different rack systems now for the last year. We've been working um we're pretty much with the system instructions. How to set up a system instruction. How much should you include? How sh how detailed should it be? No we have uh I think it's a system instruction that we use For many assistance, we customize it of course, it that's very important. But the system instruction is a sort of the same hierarchy in the system, uh what is the first part of the prompt, what is the second, what's the third? I think it's about twenty sixteen to twenty uh sort of where what we're going through. We ask it to be accurate. You have to do this and then you do do that. Then you check the results, you know Uh so we have um it's pretty detailed. So that's into the system instruction. So you give it a list of steps of what needs to be done, like be accurate. Check one thing, then go back and check again. So that's in your system instructions telling the system how to behave and model that behavior. Yeah. It's like context task, specify the task step by step. Define your output, how do you want your output? That's basically like broadly how it looks. But what we've seen also is that this varies from model to model. Like the newer models require less precise prompting. Like O3 is very good at like figuring out your intent based on your, for example. So so I I think we're moving towards the future where you can be less accurate in your prompting. 'Cause the models will kind of figure out what you want. Yes, exactly. I think those reasoning models that we're seeing that come out and actually spend time thinking, they've been doing that. Step by step. But still asking the right questions always helps. Yes, we had a we had a workshop in Vienna now in the end of January and we saw that really asking the journal the journalists to okay to think again what is your hypothesis? What is your main question? Think about that. Okay, can you can you ask for very specific things in when you when you have 1000 documents? What are they really try to be very specific when you ask? And then narrow it down as you go. And I also want to get into you'll have been creating a politics assistant as well in that's been like an AI gentic system. I also want to get into what that project has been looking like. Yeah, so we've uh this kind of ties into prompting and it ties into what we talked about about KTM on because what We're we've been talking about is journalists querying the system, right? Asking the questions, figuring out what to ask. Well, this is more of a The input isn't a question, it's a document. Because reg systems are really, really good at highlighting changes. Like if you have historic documentation and you get a new document that ties into that You can ask me what is new about this? How does this change from previous reports, for example? This new report that came out. And that's what this is. It's for handling financial reports from municipality. Trumpsa is in deep trouble. They're in the red to say to say say it mildly. They're on the verge of bankruptcy as a municipality. So municipal finances are very important to us because that like greatly impacts the citizenry of Trump says if like they have to like increase renovation bills or whatever. Like it it will because they're they can't handle their finances, that will impact the people. So what we wanted to do was make it easier for our journalists to kind of pick up on what's most newsworthy once such a report is published, because they are published four times a year I think no three times a year, where they like first there's the budget process of the municipality, then there's the revised budget, and then they report or evaluate how is it going You know, like are we meeting our goals or are we way behind? Are we spending way too much? And when those reports come, we want to run them straight into a system and get the output that we want, which is these are the changes from last time. This is the most newsworthy as aspect. This is who you should call. So that that's kind of the the system here. And so so every time the budget comes out, you're able to put it into the system, see what's changed, what's new, figure out which sources to go and call as a result as well and giving you highlighting that top newsworthy items. quite quickly. Yeah. And that's a different way of using rag systems. Yeah. I like the way once is like you're you're going and talking to the system to find something specific, but this is also another way of using the RAC systems to see how how have things changed since the last set of documents that have been inputted every single time in in your database and comparing that. Yeah. In that story we also had a large media prompt that asked asked to find the gaps between what the politicians are saying and and what's actually happening, okay. It find very good stories for us, in fact, and uh good news stories, uh, which were important for the um important for the uh the people in Trumpse to know about while for example how many teachers will be in the school, how many health workers will be in the hospital. uh very important information. You can also use it to sentiment analysis, which is pretty good. And we could ask her to to um yeah. To see what is the we had one story we we looked at, we found we found one story, we did a sentiment analysis and we saw what were the most problematic. in this document that the journalists should look into. Yeah, no, I d I just feel like the possibilities are endless, basically. Like You just have to figure out a cool use case and go for it and test it out and it you you'll likely create something of value. I'm very curious to hear, uh since you guys I would say have been the really been on top of the developments that have been happening in the AI space and have been innovating with it. What are you seeing as like the future of journalism looking like? What is the future of newsroom? What are you predicting it would look like? I think if you're going to have uh a It's going to change journalism, of course. It's going to change the the products and they're going to change the way we interact with our community. I think you're going to have For the first time we have really have the possibility to have real interactive journalism. You can call it dialogue journalism. Okay. Precisent dialogue journalism where we could um make The combination of data sources available for people so they could start themselves asking questions. What is the most important that's happening in my neighborhood now that I should know about regarding my school? Let's say you're standing here making dinner and asking uh speaking and asking, hey, what's happening now with my school? Uh I have uh My children are eight and ten, what's happening? And you will get the other answer. And then and then you say that was a pretty cut you tell it like a a little more trilling, okay? And you'll get it. I think you'll That kind of interaction I think it's not that far away. As soon as we are able to be sure that it's not hallucinating any That's still the big problem and I think that's still the reason now why we why we are not publishing such things now. I agree with you with the conversational nature of news. I think it's it's a it's a very it's it's a possibility of what we're gonna see quite soon I would I would say. I think you're right. But it also like we're in the first phase of AI implementation, not only in news, but in industry as a whole, or as in in society as a whole. And I think it's gonna change how we interact with information. like on a more more kind of fundamental level. Because we've had like what 20 years of the search bar being our kind of interface with information from the world. This is totally different. It's very different. We are outsourcing some of our internal cognition to these kind of systems that synthesize, gather, and provide information for you. It's it's very different. What does that mean for local news then when uh your your website might not be the destination people are coming to, but they are interacting with your Agent. Yeah. I I was thinking about this. Like, I I I have no idea how it's gonna look in like say 10 years. But I think Our role will not as much be providing a platform like a website, but it will be providing data, like carefully curated and processed data. That is kinda what's the word I'm looking for? Like when you net dough, you net data, right in such a way that it it helps people make sense of the world around them. That is kind of our goal as journalists. And I think how that It's kind of consumed, thus up in the air. But I'm I'm like I think it was you that said it like uh experienced designers will be a major part of any newsrooms newsroom going forward. And and I think that's totally right. Like it will be all about designing experiences around this data and catering to User preference. I don't want to say reader because it might not be a reader anymore. So then I still think that stores is going to be important. people would still like to hear these stories and they would like to be surprised still. So that's why I think that's in some way it's it's sort of platforms that the people can go to to get these stories will still be important in some way, I think. I'm just saying I saw the the Reuters numbers on referrals, like just from different platforms like social media, Facebook, still huge, but going down. In eight months, referrals through ChatGPT went from zero to over a hundred thousand. in news sites. So it's like I I feel like we're we're like almost there, but we're gonna see like generative ecosystems of information. And then it's like, how will our platform figure into that? I don't know. I don't think that maybe there is no place for it. That's a scary thought. I also think that um of course it's going to be um with these waste amounts of data and you combine it and then you can and you can personalize it and what any kind of uh of version you would like to uh it's a lot of it's a lot of news stories, it's it's a lot of information that we can give directly to each person that we now we don't we don't publish it okay because it's it's way too small audience okay but the fast we are able we could be able to to send this sort of personalized news stories directly to the con to one person or ten or the neighborhood. I think that neighborhood journalism is going to be important. So it's a sort of hyper personalized community journalism. I talked to someone at an Irish newspaper where everyone in the community could just come in during the morning meeting and kind of pitch the story or bring up something that was Something that mattered to them. And they kind of had this very cool interactive process where their journalism evolved from the interaction with the community in that way. And I thought that was extremely cool. And I think we with AI we can do that at scale. Like have that interaction with our readers and build a community. And that's the possibility that's pretty cool. That's an exciting one. Yeah, so that's why I'm I'm pretty optimistic. Because I think uh AI gave us so much opportunities to reach our audience much more indirectly and and also reach people that now are not interested in news. Okay. You have so much people that th they don't read a local newspaper. Why should they? Because it's too general. It doesn't concern them. But now we have the possibility to really reach out and and and give them the information that they are uh interested in. We have to sort of avoid making a lot of echo chambers and all the echo chambers. So we have to resol to solve that problem. But Doing that, I think it's extremely important though that we use enough time to to go out and ask, get in contact with or community and ask them what do we need? How can they how can we solve your problems? I think that's maybe our best bet at surviving as the institutions that we are. Like Y Tromse is a newspaper that was funded in 1898. It's still around, but w if we're gonna be around for another hundred years, I think we have to do it like that. Because with AI, we'll also see increased competition. Like we we barely survived social media as an industry once Facebook and all these giants came and kinda took a lot of our revenue that we were kind of relying on to do our jobs. And with AI, and we have these new tech giants emerging, like you have OpenAI, you have Anthropic, you have Google coming in hard. in the AI sphere, does increase competition. Because they are also informational ecosystems. And then the technology also enables anyone to do an industrial kind of job. You know, like you will have way more like solo person projects where one person runs an entire news site, for example. And if they're able to design an experience better than you, then they can just replicate that. There's going to be increased competition, but at the same time it gives us very powerful tools to Build community and ca can it still be relevant, I think. That's why I think it's so important that we get all journalists on board. That we have We have trying to find a system now using a system where every journalist can sort of understand how they can use AR to support improve their journalism, make their own assistance. and on top of that start to build new products. Because this if these rack systems are good enough, we can build projects, products and services. On top of that, that will be uh available also for our community. And every of our journalists have their own community in one way or another. So I think that's why it's important to to have all journalists on board when they are making this. I think that it's almost um in some years from now, I think we're going to build a new a lot of new products. And the journalists going to every journalist going to have some role in developing these new products and services to specific communities. I think you're touching on something very interesting also with this kind of technology because it allows for an insane amount of bottom-up Innovation. That's the most exciting part. Yeah, you don't have to be a developer to create something. You know, like it's a creativity unlocker. Creativity is the only limit. As this technology progresses, sure. Some of the code produced by OpenAI's O4 won't be executable, but nine percent of it is. And this will only get better. So you will be able to very easily using natural language or using your ideas and concepts, be able to create products or tools that help you in your everyday job. And I think that's like the most exciting thing about this. And if we can get everyone to a level where they kind of see the possibilities and know how to use the tools like that, that is a game changer. Exactly. Well with all of this optimism and all of this innovation that y'all have been doing in your own newsroom, I'm very curious How have you been integrating AI or how has that been a part of your own life and how you've been using for your personal use cases? Or has it been or you've been completely avoided yet? I I've become totally helpless without AI. It's kind of scary. Like in two years time I went from very capable on my own to being Completely dependent on AI systems. I can relate. If I'm traveling, it's um it's very helpful, of course. where I'm going to, which is the where is the train station, everything. But also at home I using uh to find to to find or make the uh very good recipes okay And we had um in Norway is um in the northern part of Norway is a traditional a traditional meat, it's the reindeer heart, okay? It's the heart from the reindeer. And most Sami people, they will just sort of cut it up and eat it. Okay. And I called all my Sami friends because we're going to have a dinner. And I called all my summer friends and say, hey how how how should they make a some sort of more more more a treat, okay a more uh a dish, yeah, a full dish. So what they did was um asking the same people how should we make a dish of the smoked reindeer hard and they said well just eat it they said okay so I asked Chat GPT of course And I got uh three suggestions and we made we used one of them and that's the best reindeer heart I've ever served. to some people in Norway. So it worked. And they said that. Yes. So the Chat GPT proved to have a better recipe it seems like. Yeah, it has a very good recipe for um yeah. I used it uh recipes Finding my way. Finding a way? I I think uh as a summary I would say that in my private life I use the AI tools to find my way. Okay. Like all from ev every my in everyday life and work. I use it. Definitely. It's like there's no stupid question, right? You don't have to worry about asking a stupid question. You can just ask Chat2PT or whatever service you use, and you'll get some somewhat of a okay answer pretty much anything. Like we're talking about like we haven't reached a general AI goalpost yet, but I feel like that goalpost has moved quite a bit over the last couple of years because it isn't very generally applicable. Right? It can help you in a lot of areas of your life. So what is your specific use case, Lars? Well, I use it for pretty much anything. Developing in my spare time, like not work-related, like just my partner makes games and writes scripts for these games. And was like, oh, I I can't use cloud, it's so hard with an API, I can't develop anything. Just turning out an interface took two minutes using AI. Like here you go, this will work. With chat GPT? Was it with the old models? No, I think that was Windsurf. Oh yeah, so WindSurf and other like these AI code editors, they just write the code for you. Yeah, yeah, yeah. club interface that you can tie or use the API key with. There you go. Work straight out of the box. Like first try. Like these kind of things, like small kind of tasks that were very complicated and took time that you can do now very, very quickly and get like good results I do a lot of that kind of work with uh with AI. And then prototyping, like this is sort of work, sort of not work, hobby work-ish. kind of thing is also extremely efficient. What tools do you use for that for prototyping? Like Windsurf mainly. It's very good. Like June said, like like when you become like we call it food tired in Norway. I don't know if that's an a a term in English, but when we're like I don't know what to have for dinner. That's matrat means food tired. And you don't know what to get at the store. But you need to get some sustenance, right? Like it's great for that. What should I have? This is a picture of my fridge. What do I need to make something to eat? Do you all play around with the advanced voice mode, the real-time video? It changed my life. I was in Greece recently and it was it was beautiful Like just being able to converse in Greek with people who kinda like older people who struggle with English. Just tell them like anything I say, just translate it to Greek and do the same the other way. Boom, instant translation super good and they thought it was hilarious. Exactly. I was in Istanbul in December. the day after it came out the the video part in advanced voice mode and I was um touring Haya Sophia and I just turned on the advanced voice mode and the live real time video and just started showing my surroundings and it became my tour guide and I could just keep on asking it a million questions back and forth. I mean I don't know if it was hallucinating here and there, but like it's It seemed pretty accurate to me and for somebody who just had no idea what I was looking at, it it turned out to be something I was able to learn about the history. I could ask all of these questions. But yeah, that that's that that was one of those features where I got so excited and it's become a part of my life. It's just a great learning tool, like for AI in general. It's just so great for learning. Like if you have questions about uh books or parts of books you don't understand, math you have trouble with, language just for like teaching yourself a new language like it's way more efficient than Rosetta Stone and all those old kind of rules. It's just amazing really. Definitely. Lars and Runa have had so much fun just hearing all about the innovation at Romso and I wanted to go in depth. into each one of them because I learned so much every single time I talk to you guys and we could go on for hours as we have already but I just want to thank you so much for Taking the time to come on Newsroom Robots and I am so excited to keep up with all of the exciting work that's happening and I am looking forward to seeing how you make itrometry one of the most AI competent newsrooms that you spoke about. Thanks a lot. That was Runa Yutterberg, the head of the Data Journalism Lab, and Lars Adrian Giske, the head of AI at iTromSol. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy And this is Newsroom Robots.