This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. On today's episode, I'm bringing you a conversation that was recorded live at the Nordic AI and Media Summit, where I had the chance to moderate a panel With three newsroom leaders who are right at the forefront of integrating AI into journalism. Joining me on the panel will Gard Starl, editor-in-chief and CEO of Ouija in Norway. Fabian Heckenberger, the managing editor and senior editor for AI at SZ in Germany, and Nya Nielsen, the media director at SWT in Sweden, and the former digital director at BBC News. We talked about the big questions that media organizations are grappling with right now. Like how do you align AI with editorial values What does it take to build trust into AI-powered news products? And how do you structure your teams and strategy to stay agile in the face of constant change. Thank you all. I feel like it's been a very pragmatic morning, also a bit of provocation, hopefully I see. And I think this the whole idea for this morning and the way in which Casper had been telling about putting this entire scenario It's to start a conversation, a discussion, and the little bit of provocation that I was doing, because we all don't really have the answers right now. And it's a discussion that we need to be doing with all of these questions. And I think that's what This panel is going to hopefully be about and get a bit more deeper and technical into all those questions and also a chance for you to ask your questions. And so please get those ready. I'll be opening up for that soon. But with everything that we've spoken about so far and I think one of the key things we're gonna group again into our organization's structure and values theme that we're thinking about AI, as we have been seeing, is like an infrastructure shift that is embedding within every single unit. It's not just a separate team. But one of the core questions I think that I want to start off with you, Gard, is basically the fact that how do you prepare and strategize for something that is evolving so quickly and you're not really sure where the future is. You're not really sure how regulation would look like. If there is going to be regulation, what would that look like? And there are so many uncertainties. And so in a time of uncertainty, as a business, how do you strategize and put forth a strategy to be ready for AI? Well I I try to focus on the things I can do something about. And I can't do much about regulations in the EU. So I try not to focus much on that. I'll try to focus on what we can do in VG in our newsroom. And I think my most important task as a leader is not to point direction, but to foster a discussion within the organization. So as I said in my presentation, there are a lot of disagreements in VG about the future and AI. And I really think that is that's a tool for me. People disagree. and we have that discussion as VEG and we work with scenarios. So we have different scenarios for how this can develop for the next years and we try to say what can we do to experiment and move in other try to to move in different directions. And also I think we had the discussions before we went on stage that why is it so that if you look at the Scandinavian media brands, we are in the forefront of in many ways in the technology shifts. And I think the openness in this the Scandinavian market is one of the reasons why we had. So we have that discussions. You are open about uncertainty And when you open a button certainty for the organization, then there are possibility to create like solutions. So I think that this is a really interesting part of being a media executive. Because if you looked at the latest shift, we know that we had to move from A to B. No, we don't really know what which direction things are moving. So there are threats and there are possibilities. And as I say to the staff in VGU, you can focus on threats all day, but if we focus on the possibilities, there is a chance that we can. Well, foster and survive. And in that same realm it's it's all about collaborations and Nordic newsrooms are definitely ahead across all of the places that I have been looking at. But what is those maybe one practical step that you're taking right now? to make sure that you're agile and maybe Naya, if you can get into like what kind of steps would you advise newsroom leaders to start thinking about to be prepared and resilient for that change. Uh I think we've seen some examples here, but I want to talk about SVT that soon will be uh my workplace because I think we've heard both Eric and Sarah and others from SVT are here. And I think the way you have been involving everyone. I think as top managers it's our responsibility as Eri from uh Helsingisandomat said yesterday, it's our responsibility to know what is going on, to be informed enough And to be brave enough to make the damned if you do, damned if you don't decisions. Like there is only forty nine percent chance of getting it right, and often we will not, that's our job. But we cannot come up with all the solutions and we have to be really aware that the worst legacy we've got in media Especially in news organization, is that we believe the one that is the editor in chief must be the most clever man in the room. and therefore uh he or she must make all decisions of importance. So what you see often is that actually strategic decisions are by accident delegated to the floor. People don't know whether to go to you know in one or the other direction, whereas kind of very minutiae detailed discussion, should it be orange or should it be purple? Something you shouldn't discuss if you can test it. And there I think and I I just said that to our really uh to Marie the our good moderator is I think we really need in this round to learn from Silicon Valley. I know we love to think of them as big evils and since I lived there I also know it's full of inspired creative people and some of them are even more creative than we are and some of them are totally dedicated to solving problems for people. And of course we know there is a potential extinction of democracy ahead of us and social cohesion and they are also responsible for that. But we do need to copy their way of working and remember that Amazon, Netflix And we need to do this in this round because we didn't do it in the first, I think. I mean a little hesitantly. Not nineteen years, but then at least three years too late. Yeah, I just want to add one topic. I think that's that's really important. I'm not a C level executive, but from my point of view It's very important to create kind of a transformative framework. To give the newsroom and the organization some guidelines. and to point out what is going on, what is happening, but also on the other hand what we don't know about, like you already said, Gard, and what we still have to figure out by testing and creating some freedom and some some spaces for this kind of testing. I think Balancing these kind of principles out is very important. That actually brings up a really important point because how do you structure your newsrooms? And this is a whole structural shift that's also happening, Gardi. You spoke about that But when newsrooms are now adopting to a new way, usually AI projects were or tech projects are tech and product, but now you're having an interdisciplinary team. And when newsrooms are evolving their structure Who owns the project? Does it matter? Should it always be a tech or a product? Should it be an editorial person that is leading these kinds of AI projects? How do you decide Who is the person should be leading these AI projects in your newsroom? I think it depends on the problems you are solving. But in my opinion, the most important thing that we bring People from different parts of the negotiation together and that they own the problems and they try to find the solutions. And we have had examples of Tech-led experiments that have been really good. We have editorial-led experience. The problem in many newsrooms is that these different parts of the organization they don't really understand each other. So I think what we have to do now is to bring them together and that is not only in the projects but in the everyday work. flows. They really need to understand each other. And I can bring give a couple of examples. I mean bringing product closer to the newsroom has changed the way we work with user development in VG. So we we are most more focused on the user needs now. And bringing tech in there it's obviously changed how we do investigative journalism when bringing them in there. And I think the editorial stuff is also quite interesting for the product managers to discuss problems with. What worries me now is that I think we have been doing a great deal to to combine product and uh editorial, but I think there is a lack of business development in the newsroom now. And there is a I feel that newsroom is not so reluctant to work with product, but they are very reluctant when I say Let's work on the business strategy with this project as well. There's a problem. But we need to work on that because that's that's the threat for the next couple of years. If we don't in the AI shift, think about new business models for journalism, then the products can be as good as we hope for, but we will will not be able to earn enough money to finance journalism. Every project needs a business value, business creation that it's creating to create that revenue. But also I'm very interested to hear from you, Fabian, because you were talking about this the you'd had did a look back basically on what happened in this different structural shifts. And looking from those experiences, the How are you thinking about the organization shift? Also, are there new roles and new talents and people and voices that need to be brought into this conversation right now that we are not thinking of as much? Yeah, I think that's a very pressing topic, but the looking back helped really helped us because we try we already established these interdisciplinary teams like Years ago we did this already with creating storytellings seven or eight years ago. We have interdisciplinary product teams at Süddeutsche where At least one editorial member or journalist from the newsroom is embedded within the teams for the homepage, for the apps, for audio and stuff like that. And this really helps us to And now iterate on all the things we have to deal with managing AI is was and is coming up of course. I think one topic we haven't really figured out yet, and this would be maybe a question for you as well and for the audience is the topic of prioritization. We still have these ongoing struggles. Do we implement, do we build this product feature with SERS, our subscribers right now? Do we have to test These new Gen AI features? Do we have to develop the new tools? And this is kind of a prioritization battle. And we haven't really figured out how to navigate through this battle. I want to get into that a bit more deeper because I think that's a interesting conversation that every newsroom is facing right now is figuring out what the ROI of AI is. Is it a loss? investment basic? Is it investment right now even though you are not making a progress or is it a complete loss and it's just gone away in that sense? How are you Evaluating which projects should get prioritized and then once they do get, measuring and seeing does it actually have an impact on your business? Yeah, this is why I think we need to all of us need to look at the values and the why. Why do we exist? And we need to focus on problems we are here to solve and also to figure out or or like it's the job to be done as you said. Because I think we now we've talked about it for many years, but I think now is the time to recognize People that are buying or using our products, they are the active part. It's a bit like the revolution inside education where people have understood that Someone teaching like this means that maybe twenty percent of the classroom is learning anything. Learning is an active thing that you do yourself. And a lot of what we've been doing in is just broadcasting. We even in English, which I uh thought was interesting because I had to get used to that, the term is the audiences, right? And we are we're back to that thing where we want to be on the stage and you should be passive, the audiences, but that's not the job that we should uh that the audiences need to be solved uh for. Maybe they don't want to be audiences. Maybe they find it a bit boring. I think now, especially public service, I think we really need to think about not interdisciplinary, I think is including the public in the development. And how do we do that? We don't know. Is it gonna be fun? Oh God, yes. The becoming participants of the news and just audience. But also the development. I think what I really liked about the SR example is the transparency, the openness. taking really like who's developed this crap feedback and I think we are so we're so nervous about not being competent. But I think honestly I think for most of us people are not in doubt that we are competent. They are in doubt about whether we want to do them well. Whether we really have their interests at our hearts and also whether our heart is in the right place because they see so much bullshit around. So they are really in doubt about who to trust. including us. And Garda, I want to hear more about how Ouija is prioritizing all of these different projects. And you've had a history of AI innovation. So what are the frameworks that you all are looking at to see Is this a good return on our investment when these AI projects are being deployed? How we work on that? Well we uh as I said in the start we just had a lot of experiments. We really didn't know where to go and where to look. So we try to include as many members of the staff as possible in the first part of it. And then when we have the first experiments done and we saw that this works this doesn't work and we were really all into the users and tried to test it on users. I'll give you an example of how difficult that is. But now we have a structure for it. We have like We have an AI lab in Shipstedt that we can bring projects into, then we try to prioritize and like the VJX project that I showed you, I said this is the problem you're gonna solve, visa goals, and we give you one year. And if you don't have any results at one year, then we'll shut you down. So it's one year. And we got some funding for it and then we'd say, okay, one year. If you're doing any progress All right, then we will give you more funding in more time. So I think that to have a short timeline for projects that is really important to have to clear goals in the start. problems are you going to solve and within which time frame. But I'll give you an example of the user the problem with users. The VGX project that I showed you. We tried to use those some of those experiments on the VG project, on the VG front page. And we looked at the data, we didn't really understand the feedback we got from the users. And why was that? Well, we tested the new product on our super users. And they did really hated it because they are used to seeing news the way we present them. They really like VG. So if you want to test new products for new users. You need to recruit users that you don't have and test on them. Because if you test new features on your loyal audience, they will probably Just tell you to do whatever you do today a little bit better. And that is not the future. Yeah, a bit of selection bias over there that will lead to that. Um I actually want to get it deeper into that, a little bit more specific, because you're seeing you measure the progress. Progress can be subjective. So what do you measure it on like audience engagement with a particular app or the number of apps and the products that are creating? How do you decide what is progress for you? Just qu qu uh data and the user interuse. So we have like we said we try to recruit users on a specific product and we test all new features on them and then you get the feedback. You see if you look at good retention, if you look at loyalty you need to know what KPAs to measure and I mean clicks is not the right uh measurement for almost uh anything. I think a trap there can be to you we test our own stuff and then we look at our own users or the test group we found. And then at least we have done that sometimes, develop something great. The problem is just that someone else out there, maybe from Silicon Valley, they've developed something even better two years ago. I think that's a thing. So you also really need to surround with what other options. We need to put ourselves in the audience's shoes and also do something that I can recommend. I've tried a couple of times where I had a a not a working period only twice actually my career. But those two times I decided that I only would use news And content I was interested in. And I'm sorry to say but most of what I have been editing and producing there were not really time for that. And I think that really and I know that I'm a special user, maybe I know too much about news, but I mean so is everyone else. The average user doesn't exist. So this is why I firmly believe in personalisation or being relevant to many, many different people. Of course we have to figure out a way of doing it aligned to our values. But what we have done especially in public services, we've been discussing this for more than a decade, where I think we could have done like VD and maybe tested it. I think Wiley actually in Finland are taking the first brave steps in testing differently curated news because why are we sure that one size fits all is the best? We talk about editorial pride, but how are we sure that we're really giving the most important to everyone? So when it comes to to measuring ROI, we think about kind of three baskets. I tried to outline that earlier. We think about our subscriber business and we try to measure retention in terms of subscriber views. We think about efficiency and uh you you already showed the numbers of the the hours that you gained. That's we try to measure that as well and then try to find a good way to use this. This hours and the third basket is testing and just playing with the AI for the sake of AI. But we try to move away this basket more and more because I think this phase should be over now. And having said that, of course that's absolutely very true what you said, Guard. And I think uh David Castwell coined the phrase digital or online is the new print. When we put out new features and new Gen AI features, we tend to think in the And the categories of our users we know, of our subscribers we already have, and that is kind of a problem. Exactly. And I think uh one step further into all of that is If Gen AI especially touches all of the different aspects of journalism and your audience starts to see it, how do you start designing for trust in the different news experiences that you're creating? And also at the same time making sure that aligns with what you want your editorial judgment to be passed on through that experience as well. That's a really good question. And we did a survey in Sweden and Norway through INLAB whose partnerships with the family. And they looked at young users in Norway in Sweden and tried to understand really trust in journalism. And even there w there was some differences between the Swedish and Norwegian market, but we saw that what the younger audience and the legacy audience, they are looking on the trust issue in a different way. But there are a couple of things that we can do and we're not so good about that. Transparency is crucial. I mean transparency and openness about the processes and also admitting errors. And we all know that journalists are really good at finding errors at other uh in other organizations but not so good at admitting them themselves. So this transparency is really important for trust. But the most interesting finding was why do you trust a news brand? And what came up on list was relevance. It really has to be relevant for you. And I think that that is what we are not good enough at all. If you look at our products today, I don't think that the audience we want to cater for really find our journalists and our content and with the way we present it relevant enough. So to switch your question, maybe AI and personal session can make it more relevant. Maybe AI can make our products more relevant and then they can gain more trust in our journalism. Yeah, I wanted to so uh some of you heard this in uh in another context, but I think it is so interesting when we talk about human in the loop. And we assume that human will be more trusted than a machine. Ye And then I shared an example that I uh heard of in Silicon Valley in two thousand and fourteen where doctors in the local hospital together with some of the tech companies were developing A robot that can do surgery on a beating heart and at that point everyone would say, No, no, I want a doctor to be there to kind of intervene. But the thing is, if you w need heart surgery today done by humans, you need to kill the person, take the heart out, do the surgery and put it back in. So you're you're dead for ten minutes and sometimes you survive and not always. Whereas doing surgery on a beating heart obviously is much more smart. You don't have to kill the person. And I just know if I had to choose between a doctor doing the surgery and a machine right now, doing on my beating heart, I would prefer the machine. The same is true if anyone is to land any flight I'm on, I always hope for the autopilot, right? We know that we've not been breaking our own cars for years. Soon we will er not be allowed to drive our cars. I think that is not the same as there are no humans needed, but I think the humans are needed where Area talked about yesterday where we need to augment where the storytelling, the on-the-ground reporting, everything that only humans can do, whereas a lot of things we're doing today actually machines I don't think they only will be better, I think they will be more trusted. I think this is a good point because in the start of AI we insisted on humans in loop. And if we still insist on that, we won't take the advantages of AI It is impossible to have a you personalize our content with a human in loop. So we can't stay on that principle forever. I mean some parts of our journalism when AI is uh involved you need to have a human loop. You can't have a human in loop at everything because it's impossible to personalize your content then. And we killed a Norwegian queen yesterday and that on our front page or on and that she and she is still alive. But we had it was a huge mistake. I think you also killed uh uh Harland, how many of the right? Harland, but yes they And that was a human. So you do errors all the time. It could be AI, it could be humans, but we do we do mistakes. But I mean even without AI or even before AI, you always had a corrections page and there was always corrections that came in in a way Um and humans making mistakes. And I think other than human in the loop, is there like a new model in the loop that's checking outputs in a week? That's what we're doing today. You have one algorithm, you want but doing one task And then you set up another agent that do another task in newsroom to try to find the mistakes. And so you have to work with your systems that you reduce the error uh the risk of making mistakes The example of Ha lang being shot was exactly the example I was relating to cause I told this one to our uh head of our sports section. And he read about it, okay this is a mistake. It was a photo shoot an AI misaction. Exactly, he wasn't shot, but Our colleagues from the sports section said over the last twenty years this happened like a dozen times in our sports articles and there was no uh Gen AI involved. And so I think this is also bringing it to another question if humans are not there in the loop and you can create this content. Well anyone actually can start to do that when news as such, the article is copyrighted, but facts are not copyrighted, and that affects the business model of news. which we're already seeing. We are seeing licensing deals happening, or you're either going and suing these companies and different ways in which people and publishers are looking at it. But are you thinking about new business model opportunities that are existing now that couldn't have been before because you have a new technology like Gen AI? I'm not sure about whether we have a new business model now. At least we haven't found one that's yet. But I think we are focusing too little on that, new business models. I don't think that you can build a fence around Norway or around the EU or something like that and just protect you from what is happening now. I think that what we and what you showed uh earlier today i is part of our future we have to just adapt to that. So I think the most interesting task now is not, as I said in the in the presentation, it's not Focusing on tools because all the tools we are presenting here will be from the shelf in a year. So maybe it's maybe shouldn't focus so much on that and just wait. What we need to focus on is what really can be our unique selling point for the future. So we need to find the journalism we do today that really can't be copied, that gives value to the readers, and we need to double down on that. And I don't know the answer to that question. I don't know what it is. But then in we in every organization you have to try to identify what you do that can't be copied, that gives value to our readers or the users and then move resources fast over to that part of journalism. And that is the cultural shift in newsroom because we are now we have been spending years now doing and experimenting and being experts in what AI will do better than us within. If it's a year or two, I don't know, but it will happen. I think of course we are now like all of us we like to be uh healthily paranoid and uh think about what we're not doing well. I think I think this region is really interesting because This is a a region where most people are educated to a very high standard and where they use news a lot and take part in society a lot and make informed choices in their lives. which uh helps them thrive and helps them uh raise their children and helps them uh you know with their love life and everything else. These countries are less prone, it's also there, but to all sorts of uh lies and propagandas than many other places. I've also lived in countries where this is not the case And I think if if er I remember actually ten years ago a lot of people were discussing what is the point of journalism? Should it even exist? And I think this region is actually proof of the benefits of journalism. So I think when we are moving forward here, we've got it. We know it. We know the importance of knowing what is going on, to be able to make sense of what is going on and make your own choices. For us, the lovely difficult and interesting task is to figure out new ways of doing it. And I want to hear from you Fabian. Are you seeing opportunities or the threats to your business model and how are you safeguarding against that? Uh I tend to be optimistic and over optimistic, but of course for every subscriber-based business model in media it's uh it's a challenge at least. And I mentioned earlier we shifted on the subscriber model of course like many others did. But I think in a world where it's so easy to create content uh multimodal content, whatever, and it's getting harder and harder to verify if this this content is really true. Maybe there at least for the next maybe three years there's a there's a chance for really quality journalism to double down on what we already did over the last five to ten years. Yeah, exactly. I wanna open up for questions, the audience Hi, Lea Kosko from Sutlin. I was wondering if you could in the panel reflect on Nikita's point because Nikita you made a point. Up saying basically the article will die. It's a container of information, but the article as such as a commodity will probably die. What do you think of that? I think we should have killed it several years ago. It's a problem for us. I mean I start in journalism 25 years ago and I still write my stories the exactly the same way. So the article will die, should die, storytelling won't die. I am not so sure because I think I'm not the only person reading paper books. Lots of people are. That is even though I've got all sorts of Did the sort of subscriptions because I like that I'm not getting disturbed and I can't do anything else. I only do this, so there is freedom in it. And I think when we look at all the disruptions The article will still exist, but it will be a very, very small subset of the population, people like me that might read them. Whereas a lot of other people that we also here to serve or want as customers they will listen or they will watch or a mix of it or they will be in conversation which I think is such a good point. They want it to be kind of tailored around their needs right now. But I think if you want articles or you want books, I can give you books. But it it doesn't need to be the mothership of journalism. No no no agree. If they when you are in the process of making a story doing journalism, then you have to think differently because if you go out there, start your process with thinking how can I present this as an article for basically a printed edition of Vici. That's where we start. If you look at Vici today, we have just moved the printed article into digital format and hoped it will work. And it worked but for twenty years. But I think we have to change the way we collect facts and gather it and structure it and then we can present articles for you if you want articles. But a lot of users would probably engage with that content in a different way. And that's why how we structure our content, how we structure facts. And I think we'd have to think differently about that. But don't you think that maybe there will be older cohorts just like they I don't know why, but they still have time to come home and be in a special room and then watch their news at some point at the day. There is a co-op doing that and of course that has taken is is becoming smaller and smaller, but it is taking a lot longer than anyone predicted for the older audiences to change that habit. The same can be said about newspaper like websites that many of them are like newspapers and a lot of people have those habits. So I think there the difficult answer for all of us is that we need to do many things at the same time if we want or we need to focus solely on an audience of a a special generation. Because if th I think the gap between their habits and the ways of access and information generationally will be bigger than ever before. And people will get older and older and that's uh that's good for us in our business model. But but what is the problem with the way you present this is that If you look at the article format and the way we do it today, and as I think somebody said it, the b the p we have a lot of time. We have time. People will get older, people will still read, people will watch still watch news on TV. Well what I'm worried about is that if we s work that way we will do incremental changes on the article format. We will do incremental changes our products today. And I'm not sure whether that will be enough or radical enough. to cater for the next generation. So I think that you have to move your focus from the loyal users and start thinking more radical for the next generation of users. So I hard agree. So maybe the article is cemented. Don't do anything for a low with that. Yep. And then you develop something else here. You don't kill the RTL. No, yeah, well yeah you have not killed uh well. I mean the eventual death. You're not killing it. Don I said the eventual death. Um yeah. I didn't want to interrupt. I can totally relate to everything you said and I see it from the same perspective. But I think the precise question is when do we have to kill what kind of articles? Maybe that is more the perspective of happa of happening in phases because We are sure of of course we will write these big reports. Uh send our reporters out to the Ukraine and they come back and of course they write a big text-based content piece because that's what our three hundred thousand subscribers would want to imprint and digital as well and we can market it as well on our digital channels opinion pieces as well. But I think news articles maybe already dead, maybe next year, and you have to think maybe in categories and in faces. And I think the point you've all made about there's a huge generational difference. And you are having Jen Alpha who is basically being brought up in an AI native world, who is maybe never even like looking and reading through an entire print newspaper. even see broadcast TV, is that a habit that is going to still exist in the next two decades when the people who were there are no longer around, you know, and that entire habit starts to change in a way. Um and I think those are those are really great points over there. Another question over there Hello, Johan Ekman at After Mollet. It's interesting to hear a discussion there between the private publication and uh and a public service one because through your discussions earlier It's sort of obvious that the elephant is the in the room for us company employees is the money and the business model. And you talked about how the printing press was developed going from six cents to one cent, but where is our one cent going forward? So that's my question on for you guys at stage. For public service it's you have the long-term perspective, but like you said, for VG, for aftermalt, for many others. What is the long-term perspective for the business model? Who wants to take it? Dutch versus What is the penny press for AI? Yeah, well that's a big one. I actually I don't uh I don't have the answers. I think it's uh it's a trend right now to ask the right questions while still not having all the right answers. We still rely on our subscriber model. We try to Enrich it with all things uh Gen AI, try to not base it on articles anymore. Audio of course is a big thing coming up, but where exactly the business model stands in like five to ten years? Actually I cannot say. I think uh often button in NBG is quite similar. So I think that if we stay relevant, if we have a lot of users and there is a willingness to pay for good journalism in Scandinavia at least I think there is an opportunity for us to get paid for quality content. But I think that we have to do the shift and make more of the things that we have to do. content and the journals that people are willing to pay for. And a lot of the things we do in Vijay today and I guess often that as well, I don't think people are really willing to pay for that. I'm concerned about the ad market. I think it will still be revenue there for big players in the market, for smaller players, I'm not sure. Today we have two business models. It's ads and it's consumer business. And I think that we have to look into new revenue streams, maybe small revenue streams, not looking for the unicorn, but try to find smaller revenue uh streams. that can finance journalism. But I think it's interesting if you look at the Nordic market now, no most media companies is now owned by foundations. And maybe that is part of the future that you need other ways of financing. quality journalism. We are quite lucky in the Nordics still, but maybe we will be more dependent on the revenue streams and philanth philanthropes in the future. I don't know. I don't have the answers, and um this is what keeps me awake every night. It's uh how should we find this journalism in the future? And I think it is not the same. It's not at all the same. The shop and is here, but there is no guarantee that public service is gonna continue in Europe. It is a live political debate everywhere. Because one of the problems is that if you look at our mission and why we're here, we're gonna be able to do that. Basically, if we solve that for people that are sixties, seventy, eighties, no one else, then of course we shouldn't uh have the public support. And the money is let's never forget that. Then it's it's kind of not out of thin air. It's the public in the countries that are paying for it. And they uh and that means that they deserve I I think actually I really agree with Edinburgh, we cannot disappoint them. And of course I'm a firm believer that the media ecosystem doesn't necessarily need to one taking from the other. I think we're competing. with everything else out there and I think we can help each other grow or shrink. I think we have time for one last question. There's a question right here. Thank you. Eric Shaya from France Télévision. In two days we will have um for the Pope funeral we will have uh more than four thousand accredited journalist there. And we thought that news agency or EBU were there to to solve this issue. Do you think that AI one day will Help us solve this stupidity to have uh thousands of journalists sent for the same kind of uh event I don't know, are you gonna watch? I no I'm not sure. From Citing's perspective, we would always need our reporters on the ground and you m uh I think it was the last uh slide of your presentation guard as well. I think for some events, for some things going on in this world, for some political developments, you need humans. Seeing it, thinking about it, and then maybe writing about it or speaking about it and whatever happens after that content creation in the first thing. I'm not really sure how that will look like, but I think I used to be a journalist years ago and uh my heart still uh thinks that journalists will be needed. All the way along. A little more serious uh answer is I think right now we use a ton of people to r even broadcast it so people can follow it. I think of course that most of that will be automated so people can see for themselves. But I'm not a Catholic. I think I need reporting. I need to meet people for whom it is important for me to relate to the story. I need ways into the story. I need to know what is the situation of the what is it, a billion people in the world. And what do the Pope meet to them? So I mean there are ways. I also want to know how the all the mysterious uh things that is going on inside the Vatican. There are many, many stories that can only be done, I think, through human curiosity and storytelling and if I don't get that I'm not that interested in watching the funeral, if I'm honest. But in combination I mean people like to be together and do things together like melodiefestival and or a funeral or a royal wedding. And it's not only because you're very interested in the royal family, it's because you might like to see things uh together. Actually there are a lot of Germans uh famous for poplik watching whenever there's any royal thing going on in the Nordics. Millions. Yes. So four thousand different perspectives still needed. Yeah. Um and it's that human perspective that we will have. But thank you all. I think this has really shown us that But we still have a lot of questions that we are still figuring out an answer to. And I think as an industry, it requires us to collaborate and openly start discussing these questions to start evaluating where we are headed towards together as an industry against the tech giants that are already reshaping the way in which audience are going to be engaging with their information ecosystem. So thank you all for this insightful conversation. That was God Steyrell, editor-in-chief and CEO of Luigi, Fabia Heckenberger, managing editor and senior editor for AI. At SZ and Nya Nielsen, the media director at SWT. Thanks to the Nordic AI and Media Summit for hosting this panel. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This episode is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab Spark Grant. I'm Nikita Roy, and this is Newsroom Robots.