This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Vilas Dar, the president of the Patrick J. McGovern Foundation. As a computer scientist, a lawyer, and a philanthropist, Velas brings a rare systems view of how innovation can strengthen democracy and serve the public good. He shares a practical framework for making AI ethics actionable in newsrooms, discusses how to set boundaries on AI use, and how to build trust through transparency. V We also dig into the build was the spy dilemma, ways to cut AI's environmental cost, and discuss why journalism must be a co-creator. not just a consumer of technology. Hi wheelas, welcome to Newsroom Robots. So great to have you here today. Oh my gosh, I'm so excited to have this conversation with you, Nikita. Thank you. Willas, I am very intrigued by your background actually, because you have such an incredibly diverse background as a computer scientist, a lawyer, a philanthropist now. And I think it gives you such a unique perspective on just how AI is shaping our world. And I've heard you speak about how you think we can build a human-centered, AI-enabled future. which I'm very excited to get into what all of that means. The way I've actually have learned a lot about ethics in AI and generative AI was actually looking at a LinkedIn learning course of yours, which is about the ethics and the generative AI phase. And I think in newsrooms, we can't talk about adopting AI without talking about the ethics of what that means. And there are a lot of difficult questions around that that as leaders are dealing with right now what it means about bias and transparency and misinformation. But at the same time, a lot of this is helping us build and innovate new capabilities. And so that's why I'm so glad to speak with you today because I want to get into all of those difficult questions around ethics and how can we actually translate that into the work that is being done in newsrooms. And one of the main things I want to Dive deep into was actually your three-part framework for ethical AI that you spoke about, which was responsible data, clear boundaries, and transparency as the three things you need to be thinking about. whenever you are advising and talking to leaders. I want to actually understand a bit more starting from there. When we think about all of these abstract commitments and principles around ethics, how do we translate that into actionable principles that we can implement within our newsroom? Well thanks Nikita. That's quite a powerful question to start off our conversation. Let me say a couple of things. I mean, in my entire life and career, I've spent a lot of time engaged in a study of ethics, of formal frameworks and the philosophical and ontological backgrounds. But never because I thought the intellectual journey was itself worth its own time, right? Because rather it reflects directly into the decisions that we are asked to make in times of extreme transformation and change. One of the most fascinating things about what's happening in the world today is we're not building a new form of ethics or morality. Instead, we're asking a much more foundational question. How do we take what we know to be important in what we value? in the principles that should guide us and apply them directly to the challenges that we're facing when we have new tools, new mechanisms, maybe even some fundamental new ways that we work together. So that should give you the frame and how I think about this, and I think so many people do, which is ethics is not a abstraction. It's not evaluation. It's not a secondhand thought. It should be the thing that guides the very specific business decisions we make, the ways that we implement these technologies. So in that context, you've spoken to kind of this three-part framework. I love frameworks. Um they help me make sense of a complicated world. And I think each of these are particularly relevant and germane to folks who are making these decisions in the newsroom. The first is responsible data. You know, we are moving so quickly into a world where AI is embedded into all kinds of activities from sourcing and actually validating the idea that stories are important to actually reporting them all the way through to how they're distributed. And it strikes me that we're often barreling into trying to put new tools or platforms into place without first ensuring that we have made sure that we have real boundaries around the provenance of data. understanding who's represented in the data sets that are shown in stories. That we understand how the ways in which we've collected the library of materials we use. might unintentionally exclude voices or perspectives. And for newsrooms in particular that I think have to represent the breadth and diversity of the stories we want to tell as a society, it's important that we start right from the very beginning. So that's provenance and responsible use. The second is boundary conditions. We are very much in the, if you'll pardon the term, the wild, wild west of AI. We're seeing lots of folks who are going out and trying to use these tools often because they're provided as a pilot. Or because they're developed in-house on the basis of an intuition. And I think there's something amazing about that innovative sandbox, but when those tools are deployed in ways that Directly affect people's lives, that change the way that they are represented in the media, that potentially inform policymakers and decision makers We need our institutions to engage in as deep of an innovative process about the boundaries we set as we do about how we push those boundaries. So how do we set bright line rules about AI? There are things that we will definitely never use an AI tool to do. For example, the creation of a synthetic quote, right? Using an unattributed source, using LLMs to generate things that might make a story feel stronger, but violate a foundational precept of journalistic ethics. And then the third element of this is when an organization has gone through that process of saying, hey, we've vetted how we use AI. We've set our boundary conditions in place then we need to really consider how we share and build trust with our readers. And to me a key element of that is transparency. How does a editor, a journalist, a newsroom ensure that the people that they are serving know what's AI and what isn't? And there are a number of mechanisms that I think newsrooms, some of them amazing friends of yours and mine are doing out there that range from disclosing all use of AI to maybe partnering every story, every piece of output with an explanation of how AI was used in that particular piece of reporting. We don't have answers because we're not yet at the place of saying we have best practices for each of these three domains. Instead, what we have is something that I find quite joyful and wonderful. The ability to innovate and try and pilot and test. Because we believe that there is a correct answer out there, we just have to go out and find it. Exactly. And I think one of the big questions also is when we are implementing this, what are those questions that you think leaders need to be asking their teams before even deploying any of these tools, either internal-facing or audience-facing? What are those key questions that we need to be asking from our teams? The first is recognizing that just because there's a potential technological solution or an advance Doesn't mean that we vetted it against the purpose of our organization and against the ethics that we hold. So often in organizational structures, you have boards, you have executive teams. Then you have often a siloing in newsrooms of those who do maybe pure journalism, right? The reporting, the storytelling, the editing, and then often some other team that's responsible for data and analytics for AI implementation. And I think we're seeing across the entire kind of private sector and public sector, it doesn't work. Because if you're gonna think about something like AI, that's no longer just a bolt-on tool. but rather as something that fundamentally integrates into every part of the business, leaders need to be asking, how do we ensure that both the user, the consumer The creator, the architect, and the person who's supposed to oversee it are all equally literate in what AI means in the organization. So that's where I'd start from. The first question leaders need to ask is. Who's involved in this ecosystem we're building? And how have we ensured that everybody is similarly capacitated to go out and be able to do what they need to do? The second is to allocate responsibility, not just responsibility for the technological design, but for oversight and accountability. for risk management for something that I think is quite important, a consumer-centric or a client-centric view of what the impacts of these tools might be. And again, not merely as an evaluation framework, but as a structural input into what and how we design. And these take on lots of tactical positions, right? From things like AI risk registers, a new model for how we actually account for AI use across the organization, all the way through to kind of understanding who's in charge of board level oversight. Who at the executive team is responsible for ensuring that that's being reported both up and down, and maybe most powerfully and most importantly, How we ensure that the reporters and journalists at the front line have not just a voice, but maybe have what we might think of as editorial control over how AI is used in their work. It's a little bit of turning things on their head. We saw what happened at some of the very large media organizations over the last 10 years when they were bought by tech magnate CEOs and were given a mission, implement tech everywhere you can. Well, we saw that the people who really understand journalism are not necessarily the data and analytics folks. They're the reporters, the journalists, the people who've made a career of understanding the power of this medium and the responsibility of it. So we need to shift power back to those folks and have them be the ones who are driving implementation. I completely agree with you. I think the biggest innovations from AI that I usually see is when you put this technology into their hands. And then they come up with those innovations. And then you also spoke about this customer-centric view of thinking about AI. And that brings me to another framework. which I also love frameworks, which I loved about yours, was the Lisa framework that you had introduced, which was listen, involve, share, and assess. And I'm wondering, we're thinking a lot about How AI is reshaping the way in which audience are gonna receive their news? And then how do we rethink and keep the ethics of designing AI in a way that it actually serves our audience and it also serves the people who may be traditionally underrepresented in our in our community currently. Well, thanks for raising this Lisa framework. You put your finger on it. I mean, this has been one of the most resonant kind of frameworks as I talk to institutions and organizations across the private and public sectors. This is something that I think is, again, one of those amazing Consequences of a world in which technology is changing everything, but every conversation isn't about technology. So if you're gonna deploy AI, start with people. And I think I want to frame this with you both as an opportunity and a responsibility. The opportunity is this. Every organization in the world right now is struggling with this question of what does it mean to responsibly and ethically deploy AI But because of the sectors and the competitive pressures and the markets they're in, they don't really want to share what they've learned. They want to hold on to it tight and say we'll be more competitive because of it. Journalism represents an incredible opportunity to do and to share what we're learning and what we're failing at. And so I wonder for a newsroom that's trying to deploy AI, how to take the Lisa framework and turn it into behind the scenes reporting to share with your audience here's how an article was put together. Here's all the places where AI was potentially thought about being used. Here's where we chose to do so and where we chose not to because of the ethical problems it might create. And in doing so, we're doing two things, right? One is certainly building trust with the audience on an ongoing basis, even as we experiment with AI in the newsroom. But the second is we're also beginning to build a repository and a register of the very complex decisions that, as I said, every organization is being forced to make. And creating an educational environment and a space where we can have a public conversation about these things in a way that hopefully applies just as equally to the newsroom as it does to the healthcare organization, the mining firm, the technology firm, and the consumer products company. So it's a way of reconceptualizing what the role of journalism will be in this space. Not merely to be experimenters and innovators. but also to shape a public discourse about the importance of these decisions early on. And of course, with every opportunity then comes responsibility. This isn't just about, hey, this is all the amazing successes we had and the blunders we made, but thinking about how as our reporters and our journalists build this core set of expertise, How they're actually able to use that to shape not just the discourse, but a normalization of the idea that this is important, that we can't just live in a world where AI is used for profit and damn the consequences. But rather that there is an element there of purpose and that you will be held accountable if you deploy AI in a way that doesn't begin to integrate some of these practices. Yes, absolutely. And I think when you talk about AI, the other big issue with AI then tends to be in the adoption of AI tends to be the ethical dilemmas that it is facing. And there's a lot of questions that people come up with in if you are using AI, how much of that is really ours? And if you're using AI to write the voice of your editorial voice combined with AI's voice. I think that's one of the big issues of like how do we actually distinguish between all of that? How do you think news organizations need to start to navigate all of these big challenges when they're trying to address that they're upskilling their teams? I think one of the places we can start is at almost a micro level of saying before we begin to think about the very big questions, let's just talk about how AI is being deployed in our own newsroom and our own environment. As I work with organizations, I see these kind of three phases that have been emerging in how AI is used. The first is probably what you and I experience every day. People who are just picking up an AI tool and saying, I'm gonna play with this. And often it's used in ways that aren't deeply strategic, but they're kind of like, oh, I was able to use a chat bot to go out and find a piece of information I was looking for, and it was much more efficient than going to a web search. Or hey, I began to use this to draft an internal message, a Slack message, a WhatsApp, whatever it is, right? And I think that's really a critical element that's actually widely accessible. It often doesn't even have to happen inside of a corporate environment. People can access these tools on their own and figure out how to use them. But going there from there to the next level is really the critical element. One where we begin to ask the question, How does AI align to the purpose of what we're trying to do? And how do we begin to use the tools in custom ways that bring together two elements? One, the broad generalized universal capacity of some of these big AI tools. A chatbot that knows a little bit of everything. And pairing it with the very specific domain knowledge that you have as an expert in what you do, as a reporter, a journalist who has that particular nose for a particular story. That has developed a capacity to go out and say, I know where to find this data in places that nobody knows to look, that understands how to use incredibly complex bureaucratic processes like FOIA and other things, right? And where that individual or that team is empowered to say, because we know what we do so well, we have a unique perspective on how we can integrate AI into that work. Can we use AI to streamline the bureaucratic process of a FOIA request? Can we use it to aggregate data sets that we've brought together because of Really kind of pounding the streets and doing the investigative journalism, but now we have new analytic tools that let us extract interesting data. In order to do that There's a kind of two-part piece to it. One is individuals that are gonna drive this because they kind of know what they need to do and they're thinking about how I can use it. And the organization's responsibility to create an enabling environment for that. So for example To say if a reporter says, I want to use X, Y, and Z tool to look at highly sensitive data that includes information about vulnerable people. An organization's response to say that AI system hasn't cleared our our thresholds doesn't really work. Because I think, let's admit it, those enterprising journalists are gonna say, well, I'm just gonna do it outside of the environment. And that creates ethical risks around data leakage and vulnerability. And so organizations are going to need to iterate and evolve much faster than they've ever had to before on their technology policies. But also on their capacity to evaluate these new and incoming tools to ask questions about what they need to do to secure them. And then to intentionally create things like sandbox environments that are test beds where journalists can go out and try and play with these tools without creating the risk of new vulnerabilities. So that's kind of the phase two approach, and that's where organizations need to very quickly develop a new muscle and capacity to create ecosystems of AI exploration so that those innovators in the field can do what they need to. And there's a third phase to this work, which is, you know, if we started from okay, we're playing around with tools to just get to know them, we're now using the tools that exist to do what we want to do. Well, maybe the kind of like aspiring plateau here is to get to phase three. where we're actually saying let's stop being consumers of commercial AI tools and build the tools we need in order to do our work effectively. And something really magical happens in that space, that paradigm shift from we'll go see what a vendor will offer to we will build what we need by building our own capacity to create data and AI tools. And we've seen some really amazing examples of that with many of the newsrooms that are in the nonprofit space. Tools like muck rock, tools like the ones that are coming out of various journalistic associations. Even a tool that we built called JournaPilot, a team uh that inside of my organization that created a tool that allows journalistic organizations to repurpose really high-quality investigative journalism. When we get to the point where, let me be somewhat diplomatic about this, newsrooms that organizations that have typically not been first digital adopters. But now have an opportunity to restructure how they do business to change the economics of their work and the quality of their reporting. It requires boards and executive teams to really reassess just where they want to play in the cycle of digital adoption. And for those organizations that say we will be first adopters, we will go out and innovate and create, I think there's an incredible opportunity ahead. I completely agree with you and the way in which you're talking about it, the technology is not just happening to us. We can play a part in that technology and shaping it and in developing it. And if anything, I would say that the cost of at least getting to prototype to imagine a tool and be building out has decreased. significantly than what it has before. But it also brings a lot of questions because I this debate in the industry happens a lot of like whether we buy or build a tool. And what you just spoke about brought this question up again for me. When we're thinking about whether we just go to a vendor and get something, versus a lot of news companies currently say that we are a media house and we are don't have the technological, the technical capacity to focus on build out something, how should we start thinking about even the ethical risks of whether is it a good thing for us to go and buy a tool right now versus build a tool? What sort of framing do you think we should be thinking about in all of that? Well let me tell you, Nikita, I operate in a sector, the sector of philanthropy and institutional foundations, that has been even further behind in the digital adoption curve than some of the other sectors we've talked about today, right? And I have to tell you, I have a real challenge with this idea that executives sometimes because of comfort, sometimes because of inertia, say, we are X and we are not a technology organization. And I contrast it to the conversations that I have with any leader in the private sector who says, you know, 20 years ago we realized that was a false dichotomy. There was no way we could be successful in whatever our industry sector is without also becoming a technology organization. There's something profound in that kind of adoption of identity or the response to it, right? That we still feel I think many organizations that are built on a sense of ideological purity or There are many other drivers to it. Say we can exist as what we are even as the world transforms around us. And I have to tell you, I just I think that is not a particularly good way to approach the world. Let me be much more pointed. I don't think there is a way to be a media organization in this world today without also being a technology organization. And that doesn't have to put values into conflict. In fact, in many ways, if we think of it as an enabler and an accelerant, It is the thing that lets us better achieve our missions, and we've seen that, right? We've seen it in the shift of many media organizations to digital first. in their ability to talk to many, many more consumers, to be able to tell more compelling stories because they have the ability to process much larger data sets, the ability to identify patterns and do reporting about the human consequences of policymaking because they have a digital infrastructure that supports it. Now the big question for us becomes is AI a continuation of digital adoption? Something that has been painful and sometimes quite slow, but has also resulted in some really amazing advancements. Or is there something fundamentally different about AI? And without going too far afield, the one thing I might say to you, Nikita, is what I just observe over and over again is even if we leave aside the qualitative differences What is happening is an entirely different time scale of transformation associated with AI. That what might originally have been a 10-year or 20-year transformation journey is now 18 months. And that creates a real responsibility for leaders and for innovators to take on what sometimes feels quite frictional. It feels uncomfortable. It feels dangerous. And yet in order to succeed, I think that people have to take that head on. Completely agree. And I think one of the big things that you're saying is one of the Challenges for us is maybe also to rethink what our purpose is in this world and how we are constructing. Media is no longer just a silo on its own, something that people get. It's so fundamentally intertwined with the technology. And if we want to be able to have a leading role in that, it's not just about understanding what the technology is, but actually also having a role in being making that and building that for ourselves as well. Yeah. I might just say one thing and I just want to follow on and underscore something you said. One of the other challenges here is the allure of saying we're just gonna bring in a solution that's offered to us. We will implement it. And then we will say we are an AI first organization. As you know, I mean at the Patrick J. McGovern Foundation, we've spent a lot of time and have become one of the prominent kind of supporters in the space of organizations going through this. And one of the cautions that I often provide is to say This isn't about pilots. It's not about bringing in an AI technology. It's about doing exactly what you described, which is having a fundamental reckoning with What are we as an organization in a world where many of the assumptions we have are being tested and challenged by the broad-based adoption of AI in the world around us? What's our role in shepherding those core journalistic virtues in a world where attention is becoming fragmented, where people are finding fundamentally new ways of accessing and processing information? We're adversarial and bad actors are using AI in ways that are deeply kind of convoluted and manipulative. It requires an organizational reckoning and a potential for organizational visioning to ask who do we aspire to be in an AI-enabled world? And to me, that's a much more interesting conversation than whether we should pick vendor A or vendor B in order to do X task. Exactly. Bringing that back actually into the newsroom One of the other big dilemmas that's there is related to the environmental cost of just using AI. That has significantly decreased and it's getting better in the past few years as developments are going ahead. But that's one of the biggest tensions I find whenever I go into a newsroom. People are there are the camp of people who are very excited of AI, the people who are not. And a lot of the times it's this reckoning of like How can we use and should we use a tool where, yes, it has maybe clear benefits to journalism, but it has a huge environmental cost? How do we balance this sort of tension within organizations? It's a powerful question that many organizations are tangling with. And while I don't have an answer for you, I think it is important for us to recognize that there's a fast moving kind of space here. And we're in the very early days of AI. We're stuck in a pattern where it feels like the ways that we most effectively use AI. are to go to a very limited set of providers who are incentivized to give us these massive power sucking generalized tools. In fact, we almost fetish it as a society, right? We see these tech CEOs come out and talk about like bigger and better, right? More power, more water, more data, more computers, somehow bigger AI. Sometimes I reckon it to uh I think of it as teenager. It's almost like this idea of like masculinity, like bigger is better. We'll just keep building and building. Okay. But that's not the reality, Nikita, right? Like we're seeing innovators on the edges who are saying things like, you know, we don't need bigger models. We need smaller, more targeted, more intelligent models that actually give us exactly what we need and leave aside everything else. Those models are much more power effective. They're take much less water. They take much less energy to deliver on. The question becomes though: if these big tech companies are really interested in building models that'll Maximize profits that'll serve as many as people as possible that are looking for that kind of least common denominator. Who's incentivized to build AI models exclusively for journalism? A sector that maybe is not big enough to command its own market presence that isn't going to be that profit driver. Well, this is the challenge we've struggled with for the last decade is There's not going to be some set of companies that are going to say we're going to innovate massive foundational changes in AI for journalism unless it comes from within journalism itself. So if we really care about environmental sustainability, in the short term, I think many of the critiques that are leveled are really valid, right? Well, sometimes we need to figure out do we need to ask fifteen queries of a system When really what we need to do is do the human work to figure out how to turn those 15 queries into one really good one. Okay, well there's a really easy way there where you immediately begin to cut down your environmental footprint. I think a second thing that we should begin thinking about is why does every organization need to have its own instantiation? What would happen if we could build collaboratives where Many organizations bundled together their data and their models so that we can actually have sharing of a lot of these resources and collectively reduce environmental footprints. Where are we going to invest in building the technological capacity to build these shared models? Who's going to be responsible for it? Is it every organization doing their own little part and all of us just hoping that somehow they work together? Or are we going to go back to a much more human model of shared governance and collective action and say, let's actually band together to build something that works for all of us? I think in many ways, this is really the fun question that we get to is so many of these things about AI. And Nikita, you and I have already done this so many times in this conversation. There are actually very rarely conversations about AI. They're often conversations about behavior and decision making. incentives and motivations about how we actually build new social structures that let us leverage these tools both more effectively and more sustainably. And I think that's the through line insight for everything we've talked about, right? Is rather than trying to focus the conversation in on costs five cents of energy and a bottle of water to do a query. We should be asking, how do we transform our social practices so that we can leverage the ways we use these tools to minimize the queries we need, but get much better outcomes from them? Exactly. And I I like the way in which you actually frame that question and something I'm gonna be taking away with me and use for those conversations a lot. Again, another big Issue with AI is this whole double-edged sword in the information space, which shows misinformation, deep fakes that are getting generated. I mean Google's uh new model, image model is just these AI image models and video models are getting better and better. No one can really distinguish what is true, what is not. That creates a space for misinformation to just spread than ever before. And I'm really thinking about what can we do? What is possible? How do we use AI for good? Because you have a lot of Optimism around AI. But when you think about the ways in which can really go wrong in the information space, how do we use AI so that is actually helping strengthen the truth in our information integrity more? Well, I want to start by telling you I am very rarely optimistic about AI. But I am very optimistic about well-intentioned, values-driven people that are making decisions about how we use AI. And I think we can create a better world. I'm a very hopeful person, but very rarely about the tech itself. But I'm very hopeful about people. But let me answer your question through two lenses. First, maybe a very tactical one of how we actually think about AI and misinformation and deep fakes, right? And there's something that we need to do at the newsroom level, at the organizational level, that we haven't quite nailed yet. And to me, that's thinking about the ecosystem of information and how we are making sure that people can find the things that they know to be true. I think there's three elements to that. The first is provenance, right? And we've seen a lot of folks trying to innovate different ways to provide watermarks or tags, things that verify that something you're seeing is a real piece of information versus a deep fake. What we haven't seen is some industry consolidation around agreeing to some common standards and some common benchmarks and some common frames that let us think about provenance not just between one user and one provider, but across the entire ecosystem of information. There's a real opportunity there for us to figure out how do we actually tag something to be true when it is. The second element of it is really thinking about verification models. And here AI presents a real opportunity that I think is under-discussed. When somebody has a piece of information, they're trying to ask the question, is this real or not? Today that's a very difficult process. You might go to social mechanisms like to go and search on Google or to look at social media, but there's no kind of gold standard for saying, hey, is this a real thing or not? One of the things that we've been really excited about is the creation of AI tools that do affirmative verification. So tools like Gigafact, for example, where you can actually submit something and say, is this real or not? And it'll use AI to both test that piece of collateral, but also test the social and information ecosystem around it to be able to come back to you and make a recommendation, say this is real or not. I could envision a world where we actually have real-time fact checker agents that are enabled by AI. that maybe are sitting with you as you are consuming information. They can come in and say, you know, this thing is true and this thing isn't. We're seeing a beginning of that in community focused fact checking, which I think is really important. But I think AI will be really important in order to leverage that capacity at scale. And so if you've got like some sort of provenance and you've got some work around verification, then the third is trust at a partnerships level. We know that media is facing one of its great crises in the form of public trust in media institutions. And we often think of AI as something that is a cause. I think of it as a symptom because people who don't have fundamental trust in these institutions are much more vulnerable to AI-enabled misinformation. So how do we really think about the kinds of verification coalitions, regional trust creation, like coming up with new mechanisms by which people know who to believe and who not to believe. Again, note that this is not a technological question. This is very much a social one and a critical one at the heart of journalism today. But how do we reinvigorate a sense of trust for people in the information they get? so that they're less vulnerable and more resilient to AI-induced vulnerability. Absolutely. And I think a lot of that is really intertwined with I'm thinking it's not just the technology, but us coming back to understanding what it is our role, where are we headed towards. And One thing that I keep coming back to when thinking is from your experience, Ashley, because I think you have this very unique vantage point working across multiple industries through your work. What will be missing in news compared to maybe other industries? What is our blind spot right now when it comes to AI? I think one of the big challenges is if you're thinking about a large-scale commercial implementation of AI. It's sometimes easy to define your quantitative metrics of success. Because it's a limited space, right? You think about You think about profits, right? Always an easy one. You think about customer kind of NPS. You think about the traditional framework of how you evaluate a business and you say, how does AI help us get closer? I think that's fine. Sometimes like somewhat boring, but fine, right? But journalism, we have a different intention here. I don't think Most journalistic organizations are saying how do we increase revenue or profitability by using AI? Or at least that's not the first step in the process. Instead, we're thinking about a much more qualitative framework. How do we free up reporters to be able to do higher value work? How do we ensure that we are using AI to create more fact-based veracity in our reporting? All of these things that are actually much more values-driven, but are much less metrics-oriented. And I think that creates both an opportunity and a challenge, right? The opportunity is to say we actually get to be much more expansive in our thinking of how we use AI because we're looking to actually sustain a more fundamental strengthening of our core practice. It's almost like if you ever did martial arts, it's like going back to the very basics and saying how do we build more discipline into our work? How do we build more effectiveness into it? And I think we hope that that translates into viewership and visits and hopefully subscriptions and profitability. Now. That's an opportunity, but the challenge is as you ask the question, what are we missing? Well, what we sometimes maybe are missing is that low-hanging fruit that is actually much more kind of base and crude in our motivations, right? How do we say, let's actually make our editorial process much more streamlined? How do we use AI to make sure that everybody in the newsroom has a value-producing and functional job role? And that we're using AI to automate some of the things that seem less interesting. These are hard decisions, but often they can be the things that propel a broad-based AI literacy comfort and normalization across the organization so that you can do that higher value work. And I think the other aspect to a lot of all of this is just understanding what our new role is going to look like. What does creativity look like in this world? And there's also another question I wanted to ask you because AI is becoming increasingly capable of such creative tasks. So what do you see as the evolving role of human agency when AI is able to create all of these great stories and How do we let it not diminish our creativity? I love this question, Nikita, so much. Just this week I was at a community college in rural New Jersey. the first community college in that state actually. I had this amazing, wide-ranging conversation with several hundred people who asked questions and what was supposed to be a 30-minute talk ended up being much, much longer. It was fascinating. But the most amazing question I got was towards the end of that. It was very similar to the question you just asked. It was somebody who stood up and with real vulnerability and fear asked the question, what's my role going to be? Like where do I have agency if a AI tool can do what I can do? And I'll share with you the answer that I shared with her. AI, unleashed in its current formulation, can do some really wondrous and magical things, right? Particularly in the space of information. It can find patterns, it can source facts. It can even help us do more storytelling, but an AI system cannot understand the vulnerability and pain of somebody who has just lost their house because of a bad discriminatory decision. Cannot understand what it feels like to be in the room as your son or daughter gets sentenced by an AI system for something they didn't do. Can't understand empathy or care, responsibility, or love. These are things that are uniquely human in this world. And so I never fear for our agency. Because the things that we do that make us uniquely human, no computer system ever can Now, in that there's both a sadness and a beauty. The sadness is we may find that the things that we used to value about ourselves, that we write well, or that we are able to do a functional task. Might get displaced because the system can do it as well as we can. But maybe it will force us into a societal and an individual reckoning That actually changes what we value about ourselves. Our connection to each other, our hopefulness, our optimism, our imagination, our willingness to go and do and try things that make the world a better place. To me, that seems like actually maybe a positive thing if we could spend some time as a society reorienting what we value in ourselves. I think it's also like a personal reckoning, what our value is that we have to be thinking of at this moment. I want to just go in a bit broader and just understand a bit more for you. What is the North Star right now for the McGovern Foundation? How are you looking to create this human-centered world in the next decade? Well, that's a big question. I'll try to give you a short answer. I want to tell you about a couple of things that give me a lot of excitement and hope. The first is a conviction that for all that we've done over the last fifty years to lionize technological innovation, to put all of these startups and their founders on pedestals. We've not done nearly enough to invest in innovation of our social infrastructure, of our conceptions of justice, of dignity, of equality, and of empathy. And I think these things should happen in lockstep, that as technologies open up new possibilities for us, we go back and ask questions about scarcity. about why it is that we feel okay of living in an economic world where some have so much and so many have so little. If we tie those two things together, we might have lived in a world once where there was only so much to go around And today we say AI will increase productivity 10, 100, 1000 fold. Well, how do we ensure that we're investing in the systems and structures that make sure we participate equitably? So to me, one part of this world that we need to engage in is the institutional imagination that accompanies our technological innovation. How do we reinvigorate our sense of what our economy is built on, of what political participation looks like, of what dignity looks like in this world, and how we ensure that everybody has access to education and opportunity? To me, that's one of the great challenges of the 21st century. And I'm very proud that the institutions we support, our partners across journalism, across healthcare, across climate, across any number of other sectors, are really trying to figure out what this new world might look like for us. So that's one part of it. And the second is an intensely personal one, Nikita, that I get to travel around this country and around this globe meeting with communities that sometimes feel about as far away as they can get from Silicon Valley. They don't believe that AI is being built for them, that they will ever participate or have access to this new world that's being discussed. But in our time together, we're often able to find and identify these incredible opportunities for people to say not just that. AI is something that what for a very long time has felt like it's something done to them. And maybe they're beginning to feel like AI is done for them. But I want to get the world to a place where we all believe that AI is being done by us. That we're actually building new forms of participation and engagement. That farming communities can say. . I know what my needs are. I need an AI system that shows me exactly how to plant my seed at a certain depth to take advantage of soil conditions so that my farm can yield five to seven percent more crops a year, so that I can make enough money to send my daughter to school. To work with rural health communities that say, we know that the fancy hospitals in the big cities have an amazing capacity to do certain things. We'll never have the equipment that lets us do that kind of imaging, but maybe an AI solution can help us step over that gap. To work with educational systems and schools that are barely getting access to broadband internet, a whole fundamental problem for another time for us to talk about, but maybe today can use AI to massively step change their ability to deliver curriculum. insight, inspiration, and maybe even wonder for their students using AI. I think we could change the story from a few people innovating for all of us to one where we all get to participate in building the systems of the future. I love that optimistic future. And this actually reminds me back when I was in June at the Aspen McGovern AI forum that was here back in DC in DC. And I heard you speak on stage and I remember feeling so optimistic about the future that we are building. And sometimes a lot of times when you're going in the AI circles, there's a lot of doom as well that is coming about. So I feel like we need a lot more Vilas in the world around us. You're very kind to say that. But let me say this, right? I you know, I used to ride I well, I still ride motorcycles. I used to spend a lot of time on motorcycles and one of these things that I learned from this like Physical process of riding motorcycle is you look where you want to go. And by looking there, your body changes, your motorcycle responds to you, and almost without intention, without you doing anything, you start riding in that direction. Sometimes my value around hope and optimism is not necessarily because I think that is what will inevitably happen, but because we need to be out there being hopeful. If enough of us were, I think we could change the trajectory of where we're heading. Yeah, we can. And it's not something that's gonna be done to us. We can be a part of that. And I'm very excited for the future that you are painting over there. Vilas, I wanna end with just A fan favorite question, because I'm curious, how are you using AI in your personal life? Oh, I use it in all kinds of ways. I'll tell you two ways that I just absolutely love. One is I love to think about how our most unexpected sources of innovation exist in the world. For me, that's often my nieces and nephews. You know, these are kids who have grown up in the start of an AI era, and they often are thinking about ways to use these tools that are so different from the way that my kind of stodgy old like executive friends are using them. I'll give you an example, right? We had a chance recently to sit together on a holiday weekend and you know everybody was on their tablets or their phones and everybody was doing their own thing. And at one point we all looked at each other, my nieces, my nephews, my wife, me, sitting on a couch and said, Hey, let's do something together. And they said, Well, you tell us a story. And I said, Well, let's tell ourselves a story. And I logged them into one of the AI systems. I said, what kind of story do you want to tell? And over the course of a couple of hours, we told a whole family narrative, a fairy tale of princesses and forests and castles. That was guided by them and their imagination, but was supported and buttressed by these AI systems that built these magical worlds. where it was never out of our control, but it still allowed us to expand our imagination. It was beautiful. If you've never done this, find a young person, sit with them and say, let's tell a story together. It's a beautiful experience. So that's the fun stuff. And then let me tell you, I've been spending a lot of time with teachers and professors at schools and colleges as we just think about what this might mean for pedagogy. And too often, I think everybody assumes the use of AI to do an assignment, to write a paper, to whatever it is, is always going to be a passive experience. So you kind of give it the assignment, it writes it. But here's an unlock that I think people should really keep in mind. I am among these many kind of random things I've done in my life. I'm also a lawyer and I've taught in law schools. I'm a big fan of the Socratic method. And so what I will often do is if I'm working with an AI chatbot, I'll say, I don't want you to create anything, and I don't want you to introduce anything new. I just want you to ask me a lot of questions. I want you to ask me questions that force me to tangle with the weakness of my argument or what I have been too limited in my imagination around. Ask me the questions that force me to expand my thinking and to be better than. It's an amazing way to reconceptualize your relationship with an AI system where the AI isn't the creator or the source of knowledge. But rather as the interlocutor that lets you go out and expand your own possibility. Exactly. And it's using the tool to make you better in a way, rather than letting it do the work for you and getting your insights over there. I have to go and find a young person and do a story with them. That's on my to-do list for this weekend. And remember that young is never a matter of age. Young is a matter of somebody who is young in imagination, in the ability to kind of think about what this might be. And it might be that we find it within ourselves. Yeah. I'm gonna help get AI to help me write a story. That's gonna be the next thing as well. Well Bilas, it has been such an insightful conversation. And thank you so much for taking the time to join me and talk about all of these really difficult ethical questions that we are dealing with in news and sharing your insights. Thank you so much for joining me on Newsroom Robots. Oh it's a joy and thanks for all of the work that you're doing, not just with the podcast, but in the industry. Tint's really important that we have people like you out there leading the charge. Thank you. Thank you, Velas. Oh That was Vilas Dar, the president of the Patrick J. McGovern Foundation. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at Newsroom. com Robots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab Spark grant. I'm Nikki Delroy and this is Juice Room Robots.