This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. This episode of Newsroom Robots is supported by the Lenfest Institute for Journalism. The Lenfest Institute is a non-profit Dedicated to advancing the business of local news through efforts like the Lenfest AI Collaborative and Fellowship Program. The collaborative works in partnership with OpenAI and Microsoft to empower publishers to explore the use of AI for news business sustainability. Learn more at lenfestinstitute. org. Joining me today are Jim Friedlick, the Executive Director and CEO of the Lentfest Institute, David Shivers, the lead advisor for the Lenfest AI Collaborative. and Matt Bodgie, the Chief Technology and Product Officer at the Philadelphia Enquirer. In this episode, we talk about how the Lenfest AI Collaborative got started why this co development model looks very different from past platform partnerships, and what changes when newsrooms have dedicated AI engineers working alongside reporters, editors, and business teams. We also learn how the Philadelphia Inquirer built Dewey, an archive search system designed to help reporters with their research. This is a conversation about what it takes to move from AI curiosity to real capability in a newsroom. Like how do you staff for it? How you govern it and how you train your people to actually use these tools well. Hi Jim, Matt, and David. Welcome to Newsroom Robots. It's so great to have you here today. Thank you. Thank you so much. Well, I've been excited for this conversation because I've seen a lot about the projects that have been happening with the Lenfist AI Collaborative and especially think this is like an ambitious AI collaboration with A big funder, 10 major newsrooms, and two of the biggest AI companies with OpenAI and Microsoft. And so I'm very curious to learn a lot more about how this program got started What's going on and how especially newsrooms are being supported in their AI journey now? And especially to hear from you, Matt, from the Philadelphia Inquirer. What does that look like and how has how is AI being evolved and integrated within the newsroom? So I'd love to, before we get into all of that, I want to start off with just hearing from you, Jim. an overview of what this program is uh doing and especially how did it all get started. It started by accident. I met Tom Rubin a senior open AI executive in charge of their partnerships and their IP at an industry event. We got talking and I asked his background. He was a New York Times copyboy before going to law school and then going on to Microsoft and then OpenAI. We talked about newspapers and how they were working with newspapers and wanted to do more of it. He said he was having trouble hurting the cats, meaning It was hard to talk to multiple newspapers and have them speak with one voice and interact with a group. We at Lenfest serve as a kind of middleware between funders and partners and technology companies and others and multiple news organizations. In this case, we were able to come to San Francisco, visit OpenAI, with colleagues from the Dallas Morning News, from the Minnesota Straight Tribune, and with Matt Baji here today from the Philadelphia Inquirer. The Lenfest Institute is the nonprofit parent of the Philadelphia Inquirer. And meet with OpenAI to say, here's what we need from you, here would be our aspirations and the ideal relationship. and let us know likewise. And what came out of that two-day session was a plan that turned into an agreement that they would help fund embedded AI engineering fellows at multiple news organizations. First Five of them, eventually ten of them when we added Microsoft as the second and equal partner. Each of them received $250,000 a year to embed an AI engineer reporting to them, not to us, not to Microsoft or OpenAI, to do the work of Leveraging AI for the benefit of journalism. That's what I find fascinating about this program. It's sort of a co-development model. with newsrooms coming together and really collaborating. But I have to ask you right at the top about the conversations that a lot of newsroom leaders and editors often have of Should we even trust these tech companies? And should we be even taking money or this sort of engineering support from them? A lot of the times the questions that I often get asked is We're is this just another pivot to video era? And we can see how quickly platforms are s tend to shift their priorities. So how do you think about protecting your newsroom's independence right now and also not reliance on these tech companies. The short answer is we think thoughtfully about it. One of the things that brought us comfort in this construct was that we were working with not one but two leading technology companies. the requirements of the grants and the fellowships and the cohort do not include using either of them exclusively or both of them exclusively, they are agnostic to the platform and Matt is using several. So built into this Process is a diversification of partnership and technology dependence. I think there's also what David calls an AI optimism built in as well. We looked at AI as an enormous opportunity for the business sustainability of journalism. We think all across. industry all around the world. There are healthcare companies and financial service companies and sh streaming media companies and transportation companies and pharma companies leaning into AI saying how can we partner with these new technologies and these new companies for our benefit and theirs. We don't think this is going away anytime soon and seek to be in the flow of information and act as good partners and act in good faith. We also believe that the notion of co development of serving a a role with both Microsoft and OpenAI and others to develop new ways to experience news, new ways to leverage AI on the business side, it will benefit us and with them or without them, they're also in a very competitive world. So I think there's a difference between the Facebook Pivot to Video, which came and went, and the Facebook Journalism Project, which came and went, and a deeper co-development. of activity between these large companies and these mid to large news organizations. And AI is heard us say stay as you were talking about. And it's as your model agnostic and tool agnostic as newsrooms. It seems very different to what the pivot to video era was like. It's more about infrastructure and engineering support and getting into that a little bit more. David, I want to hear from you. What does this day-to-day support look like for the cohort and the program? Yeah, I mean, I think at the heart or the core of the AI Collaborative and Fellowship Program, we built in just a few Very simple principles. One was AI should strengthen local news, not replace it. Everything we build is meant to support very the newsroom and other business team functions around the enterprise, as Jim has said. Second, we're building for the entire industry. So we're trying to identify use cases that are not so specific to each of the news organizations that we're working with in this cohort, but can actually show the patterns that can be used and the code and lessons that can be used in any newsroom across the industry. And then I'd say another major principle for us was we thought it was really important based on the conversations with Matt and some of the other organizations and chief technology and product officers that these fellows were around for a while in the organization. So each fellow is in the news organization for two years. And having been what I'll call a entrepreneur or change agent within media organizations for a long time, there's something I wanted to do for the fellows themselves, which was really create a community of practice because it can be very lonely in an organization where you have you're the only person speaking your nouns and verbs and you're trying to bring the organization along and For most of these organizations, I think actually all of these organizations, this is the first AI engineering resource that they've had in their teams. So I wanted to make sure that we had this opportunity for the ten fellows to spend substantial time together. They they have a structured meeting every other week where they talk about each fellow sort of talks about the the work and experimentation that they currently have underway. They share what they're hearing from the industry and new research, you know, sort of in a structured way. And what I love about this is this was all self-directed. So the first five fellows started and we were having regular meetings with the executive sponsors, the day-to-day folks in the organization, and the fellows. And we continue to have those today. And I reached out to Mark Chinofsky, who is with the Chicago Public Media, and said, hey, Mark, I wanted to run this idea by you. Do you think we should get together from this program because the fellows are working so closely together is each organization doesn't have one person in practice. They have like a person and a half. Because what's effectively happening is they're checking each other's code, they're swapping code from one project to the other if there's a problem area. And we've seen incredible acceleration around some of the later experiments because one of the new fellows who just comes into the fold is like, I'm trying to solve this issue with, I'll give you an example, freshness. So that Newsday is working on this data vault project where They've been for the last couple of decades collecting local information not only from their own reporting but other sources it it combined with public data and it's really a database that is pretty clunky today, but using AI, they want to open it up and make it accessible to not only their own employees, but they think there's a marketing services component to it. They think there's definitely a reporting component to it. So When Shawnee Yu, who is the the fellow at News Day, was talking with all of us as a group, she said, okay, I've started to tinker with this. The freshness thing is a real issue. Well, who works with Matt at Philadelphia Inquirer said, hey, we've already solved that problem. We hit that wall, you know, a couple months ago before you you really started. Let's talk through it. And then she ended up incorporating the code that they used, the fine-tuning that they did to make that model a lot more responsive to what it, you know, a news application than the general large learning model is SPL. Frishness is breaking news or just data updates and that kind of thing. Yeah, I mean it's it can be both, but it's effectively, you know, as well. Nikita, you know, and others others know the LLMs are not really good at understanding the chronology of information. The the weights are done in a different way. So you could say, hey, what was a big disaster that happened in this community? And instead of surfacing the disaster that happened two weeks ago, it's surfacing a disaster that happened 20 years ago, for instance, if the archive goes back that far. That's like true collaboration where I think this is something that's been a big benefit as well of the AI era, where I see a lot of these conversations and collaborations where we're learning a lot from each other Because we are figuring this technology out together. And Jim, you were talking about these conversations started back in 2023. In 2024, this cohort actually begins its journey. Be What was that like, David? How did each newsroom figure out what their problem to solve was? Well, so the process we went through, and Jim and Matt definitely jump in here is to give your own perspectives, but the process we went through with each of the organizations was they submitted a proposal, and part of that proposal included some areas of experimentation that they they wanted to look at. And so we were very clear with the with the folks submitting that We were looking for a diversity of solutions. We encouraged them to talk to each other and see what's what the others are doing. I was you know, I jumped on calls with organizations to talk through and share what I've heard and sort of guide them in certain ways because ultimately we also didn't want to spend a lot of time money and resource trying to solve similar problems either within the cohort or outside in the broader industry. And so we've seen a couple experiments from the time that these submissions happened and they've the grants were made. to actually starting experimentation that there were vendors out there that that solved the problem already. And so those organizations pivoted to the next thing on their list. And all of this started with a hackathon, right? That he started the entire journey with. So we announced the first five grantees in October and then I do want to give big kudos to Microsoft and OpenAI both because not only did they help us fund this technical resource and they've given us software credits. They've also been incredibly generous since inviting us into their organizations and and having access to the experts that are actually building some of the tools and functionality or similar functionality in other industries. So one of the programs Philadelphia Inquirer participated in, and I'll let Matt talk a little more about the details of it, was a hackathon with Microsoft with what they call their made app team, which is the Microsoft Artificial Development Accelerator Program. where they take internally promising people in the beginning of their career and they put them on a rotation and they participate in these teams that are that do four hackathons one a quarter over the course of the year We were fortunate enough and uh thanks to Microsoft, this was the first time they opened it up to outside of Microsoft's divisions. So we were Philadelphia Inquire was one of three external organizations that participated and the only media organization that participated. And what was initially a brainchild of Matt and his teams that they thought would take 24 months to really stand up. We had working code and after that two week hackathon. And then I think Matt, you can correct me if I'm wrong, but I think it was about four months from that point to the point that you were able to release it more broadly to a newsroom. And I'll I'll hand it over to you, Matt, and let you take it over from here. Now will you be v vacationing for the rest of the two years or No, good question. Not at all. But it it does go back to what David was referring to before about sort of the ideation process as we got into the grant giving you know, review process itself, uh was trying to figure out just how long any of these different projects might take. We were very early in this process. Obviously we did not have the engineering resources internally to be able to help scope or to provide some of that context. So we were really giving our best guesses. And, you know, with some credit to David and the team as well, we were very clear. We said, we think this is where we're going to start. We anticipate we're going to pivot. We'll learn as we go. And the the group at Landfest has been very helpful for that. Can I ask you what was the starting point? What was the starting point that you had pitched with? The starting point for us was what we're now calling do we It is a full archive search across all of the material that the inquirer has published in its history. Right now, because of some system limitations, we can go back to 1978 because it's what we have scanned in text. And we're looking this year To expand that by scanning over some of our old microfilm archives as well to potentially go back as far as the 1800s. And this was the project that we came to the MIDApp team with that initial hackathon. If I'm remembering correctly, that hackathon may have started on our fellow's first day, or maybe his eighth day, but he was very, very new. He was barely getting access to all of our systems internally at the inquire at that point before we threw him into the the deep end here. And for someone who's not familiar with the hackathon, can you also describe what that journey was? Sure. What they set up for us was a two-week period with dedicated engineering and product management support. to do whatever we needed to do and again came on top of that archive search pitch that we had put together And what this really allowed us to do was to work with people who had been using these tools and techniques for a very long time and knew how to get off the ground very quickly. And you're physically together in this process or? No, this was all virtual, all over Zoom at this point. We have met with some of those participants and fellows over the time, especially as we went to Seattle for one of our convenings. Uh but this was all right before Christmas, if I'm remembering correctly, when we got all this started. So yeah, to go back to it, we began with a very simple, ultimately just a very rag application, sort of a off-the-shelf system design that they had done a bunch of times. And so within the first few days, had a chatbot going, were able to interact with it. And that really led to giving us the space to tackle some of those harder problems. like the freshness of the material or carving out different metadata fields for authors or other pieces of information that we knew would be critical to the search process. So you were able to do that in two weeks? How is the project then since evolved? Well, quite a lot. So we've already begun what we thought was a stretch goal, which was incorporating our photography into that archive. And so that's going to be very interesting for us to be able to not only scan and index all of the photos that we published, but then also to go back to some of our archives for those shoots and get all the alts for the photos we didn't use. And to be able to use those for all kinds of applications across our report, our apps and products, you name it. The other thing that's been really helpful and really by design is part of this fellowship was We now have a new capability on our team. You have someone who is very familiar with the technology and the code and can be reached out to on Slack and say, hey, I'm working on a project. It seems like this might be something that you could help me out with. And in those places we found um just massive value just jumping in with a reporter, understanding what data they're looking at, and providing a bit of a nudge in one direction or another so that that story can take on a new shape. So for someone who's never seen this tool, can you walk us through just like in plain language, like what exactly as a reporter I'm going to be able to get and receive when I interact with this? Sure. So the the setup of the application is very much like a typical chatbot that you would have with ChatGPT or anyone else. It is always retrieving its answers from our archive. And so we've pointed it at that again going back to 1978, all the way up through yesterday. We have also built in the refreshing techniques so that every night it grabs all the stories that we published and updates its knowledge base that way So as a reporter, you can come to this system and ask for specific dates. So you can say I'm looking for when a particular event happened, or I need to know who was in charge of a particular department in a certain year. You can even ask some detailed questions that span our coverage. So give me a summary of Mayor Kenny's. various political positions over the course of his political career and how did they evolve over time? Those sorts of questions can also come out of this. So it's it's a much more rich and deep research experience than many of our reporters have been able to get to. And success is time saved or insights created or all the above? For this primarily we're looking at time saved. And there, you know, it's a pretty significant Savings. We've talked to a few of our reporters who work on these. Typically, a deep dive in our archive can take up to a week. We're now saving up to two days out of that, you know, almost a 40%. improvement, which is fantastic. And we continue to work with those reporters to make sure that we can continue to enhance the trust that they have in the application. One of the things that we were very careful to train our teams on as we deployed these tools. is how LLMs learn and what they know. And so for example, as a reporter, we found that most people wanted to set up sort of test the application on their first application. So did we ever talk about X person or item? When they knew there was really only one story where that had ever happened. Or on the other side of it, give me a list of every time we have talked about a particular topic. Those two queries are very bad for LLMs. They're not good at understanding very specific information. And so what we've done with all of our research teams is to help them learn better how the LLMs work, what kinds of questions they're very good at, and then to build other supporting applications around them when they do have those use cases that the system isn't quite capable of yet. This was all possible because of the support from this Lentfest program in building this out. You had an AI engineer now on staff. But AI is a horizontal technology. And so how is it impacting the rest of the newsroom, the business, the operations side? What is that looking like at the inquiry? We certainly have a full program that goes across our entire organization. So when we talk about deployment and training for these tools, that was delivered to all of our employees, whether you're in marketing or sales or in the newsroom. And we have found even with some of the custom built applications like Dewey that we've made specifically for editorial, they have a lot of applications outside. So for example, Our ad sales team has been using it to go back and take a look at coverage for potential clients before a meeting. Say, how have we covered this particular business in the past? And is that something we can bring to the conversation? From a marketing perspective, are there particular trends in a reporter's coverage that we want to highlight in the way that we talk about them or as we're building a campaign? So we're finding lots of different use cases, and that's been what's really compelling about this experimentation process. And frankly, why I think going back to your earlier question, this is a very different paradigm than the pivot to video shift. What's different this time is we're all sort of at the beginning of the process trying to figure out the best applications for these technologies. No one is coming to us and saying, we want you to go in this direction because it's good for our platform. Instead, we're being approached and saying, we have some really interesting technologies that we think might be useful to you. Let's work together and figure out ways that they can be applied to your everyday. And how is AI literacy and just the approach towards AI, more broadly towards the newsroom, changed as you had these? AI engineering support and a lot more awareness about what AI is in the newsroom. We've gotten a lot better results and sort of approach to using these tools since we've went through some of that training. I think what it helped us do was to allay a lot of the sort of superstitions about AI, about the concerns that may arise, and also, you know, helped reinforce some beliefs of ours that We need to keep people in the loop. It is super important to continue to have that judgment as we not only decide what stories to tell, but how to tell them. And even with our reporters and editors who use these tools, there was a lot of concern. and naturally over things like job replacement and function replacement. And the more they got to use the tools, they realized this helps support me really well. And it also does a terrible job at my job if I left leave it alone. And so just that level of comfort was really helpful to get people over that hump and understand how they can best use these tools in there every day. I think one of the things that we've talked about as a cohort and I've talked to a few of our colleagues in the cohort about is this idea that A couple things. One, the whole premise of this collaboration is that news as a field in an industry is a rather small opportunity for OpenAI and Microsoft. So they're not going to spend the time sort of tweaking the tools and fine-tuning the tools for this industry. One, it's not a huge opportunity. in comparison to infrastructure and other things, two, I don't have the expertise to do it. And what we're learning with AI is there is this sort of conjunction between the human-machine collaboration where the machines can do a lot of things, but they don't have this sort of domain expertise and this, you know, sort of human level of sense making that is really critical. And then the last point I'd say is what I found in even news organizations that have newsrooms that are really hesitant about it is There is no better better profession or skill set than a journalist to use these tools because you're really good at asking questions, which is basically the prompting piece of it. You're naturally skeptical because you want to verify, you know, the information that you're getting and you want to double check your sources. And that comes in super handy when you're like You get the output and you don't just take it and regurgitate it. You say, okay, where does this not ring true? How do I confirm this with another expert? etc. So I really feel like newsrooms, there's a lot of promise because the skill set that these journalists bring to their jobs is the exact skill set needed to get the most out of these tools. And you're on a deadline. That's right. Absolutely. And I think that's what's so encouraging about seeing this tool being built, the fact that you were able to build it at least a prototype in these two weeks to get that set up and evolve from there. But I think the bigger question, both for you Jim and Matt, really, is Right now you have all this funding and you have these embedded engineering support, but what happens in year three when this program formally, it's a two-year collaborative ends. How are you thinking about sustainability about AI engineering support within newsrooms? You know, from from our perspective, we've been building that process in as we've been building the tool, making sure that we're thinking about that day when we will have to put this on our own credit card and understand how that charge is going to come through. And a lot of the the structure that we've seen with these initial trials are often, you know, use as much as you can, use as much quickly as you can. We we were not really provided with those sorts of metrics, which I think has really improve the way that we adopt the technology. It's been something that we can do at a very sustainable level. Jim, how are you thinking about it? One of the reasons that we focused on the business sustainability side of the equation, with a couple of exceptions. from ProPublica and others, as I can describe, is that some of the development should pay for itself. The Seattle Times from developed an advertising prospecting tool that looks at the market, looks at different categories, looks at a geography. And says these are the advertisers that you have never called on or that are sending signals that they're like the advertisers that you're getting. They use the tool somewhat skeptically and sold additional advertising fairly quickly out of the box. The development of the tool itself was another one of these two, three week sprints that uh right there in Seattle that was quick and efficient. So the home for each of these fellows, we think can and should find money to support them going forward if they're doing the kind of work that they are. So it's a kind of self-funding machine, if you will. The grant funding, we will certainly be seeking new support from a broad array of funders. And that's the business that we're in, so long as we add value and and develop a track record, uh, we think we'll be successful. Part of the focus that David and I have is to take the lessons of the wisdom of the code of the 10 news organizations we're working with and drive that to at least a hundred other news organizations, including anyone who wants to reach out who's hearing us right now around the world. The notion is that you build it once and use it many times and we think there's value in that and we think And hope there are people to pay for that. And you have already made a lot of your learnings and code available for people to to look at. But I think there's also another broader question I want to ask you for maybe the newsrooms who Are listening to this not a part of this collaborative. Hearing about just how AI engineering support has helped your newsroom. having that dedicated AI effort to help to your newsroom, not at the inquirer, what do you think would be the question, what should they be doing? as they think about how they move towards securing their business sustainability in this future. They don't have a grant, they don't have an AI engineer to on staff, but what are those steps that they can take? I think that's For all three of you. Yeah, and I can start with that. I think it is a real problem to get started for sure if this isn't a skill or a set of skills that you have on your team already. That said, it's not all that hard to get started. Understanding how the the tools work are pretty simple. They're available commercially and even with free tiers available to anybody who wants them. So by all means, my advice would be to, you know, get in and and play and see what you can find and see what use cases you discover. And then be as as loud internally as you can about marketing this new capability that you have. So for example, you're in a small newsroom, you don't have the ability to hire a new person, but you can set aside additional time for the existing team to train up a little bit, that's great. Start them out on some small prototypes, see how they work, and then begin promoting that deeply internally. You will find pockets of interest and creativity that you didn't know existed. They'll be coming from places you didn't expect, and they will directly, as Jim said, provide that return on the investment that you made to bring that team up to speed. Yeah, I I would build on that and just say plus one to everything Matt just said. I also think thinking about your policy and guidelines. is an important part of the process. There's also a number of tools on LinfestInstitute. org that we've been developing. One is a guide to develop a policy or guideline and how you go about that. We're currently working on how do you train your organization, some of the things that Matt has just talked about. He and I have talked about at length in terms of how can that sort of help you accelerate what you're doing within within your teams. A couple quick things from my perspective. Well we have some tools out there that Chicago Public Media is an example, and I know we're talking to them on a future podcast. They s got started with very small Slack integrations with AI. things like automating the weather report in the voice of WBEZ on Air Talents so that they could not spend the hour or two they were spending sort of going to disparate sources putting it together. They can just click in it. get into detail if they're questioning something, but they have almost a a recording ready script for them and they've done that for traffic as well. And there's a there's a slew of small, simple integrations with tools that folks are already using that we're planning to put out there. Second tip I'd give folks is really identify who your enthusiasts are. So there are a couple organizations that I've worked with. that have set up if they use these happen to use Slack, but if they use Slack, they've set up Slack channels that are basically called like AI enthusiast or AI Ambassador. And it really just encouraging folks to share what they're seeing and how they're trying things. I'd say also your teams are using it. If you're an executive, your teams are using it more than you realize already. And it's really important to put some guidelines in place and then just have a clear conversation around let us know how you're using it so we can be transparent with our readers if it's if it's making its way into the public-facing um end product. Absolutely. And Jim, as a funder, how are you seeing what people can do? From a funder's perspective, I think this field and the use of AI in this field is dramatically undercapitalized. And this is a good news podcast But these were the first AI engineers in each of these respective news organizations and some of them are quite large. And how many others there are across particularly local news is a question. And often it will need to be homegrown and self starters and people that create the expertise and apply it themselves and they will be very marketable. Partly I think it depends where you stand, depends upon where you sit. If you're the CEO of a news organization or a publisher or editor in chief, it's critical to send the signal that this is really, really important to you and you embrace people's efforts and reward them and celebrate them. If you're in Matt's role as a head of technology and and product seeking like minded People and promoting and celebrating those who are doing the work and being an evangelist And if if you're a rising star in a product organization or any part of the organization, what better way to advance your career and advance the mission of your news organization than to embrace this generationally powerful technology. Well I wanna add one other thing to that too, Jim. I think we're in a very different place as an industry now than we were even one year ago when these fellowships began. And I feel like finding the expertise within your organization is going to be much easier to do now that people have a lot more opportunity to engage with these technologies on a personal level. And since we're talking about the business of sustainability The other big question that every newsroom is also dealing with and struggling with with is how AI is disrupting the traditional business model of news. And we are building solutions for that model right now as well and thinking about it how you're continuing business as it is, but thinking about where the future is headed and if AI interfaces become a primary gateway for news. What happens to your newsroom's brand and what happens when people aren't really coming directly to publishers? And so how are you thinking about that big challenge as well? I'll describe a practical problem and Matt can describe the solution, I hope. The most immediate and direct effect, challenging effect is that Google search has become Google Answers and if a news organization w was getting forty percent of their daily traffic from Google and half of that number has declined and been satisfied by very good answers. Then their top of the funnel traffic is down twenty, twenty-five, thirty percent. And we've seen that pretty consistently across major news organizations. So what to do about that, there's a lot of conversation about being in direct contact with your own audience and your own perspective audience. And Matt is I think addressing that and thinking it through on the technology level and the business workflow level. Yeah, absolutely. We have absolutely seen a similar drop as as you know, Jim. Lots of organizations like us have seen that change in our traffic mix being impacted by AI answers. We definitely think being relevant and interesting to our community is our first and foremost goal here. providing them s services, solutions, and information that they couldn't get anywhere else, including AI solutions. And so we're investigating a lot of different ways. This is very early days. I was just recently at a conference where three different and competing content payment clearing houses were announced, some open source, some commercial. So lots of activity going on in that space. We've also heard some techniques about, for example, not sending your full article text when requested over You know, an LLM application instead sending a very short summary, maybe some bullet points, but you can save the voice of your best columnist for yourself and for your readers, for example. We've also seen some recent adaptations where you can use OAuth to authenticate into a publisher or another provider of information. So if I'm chatting with an LLM, I can say I subscribe to the Inquirer and this is my login. So please go and get me any other information that I might need to answer this question. So I don't know that we're going to be encountering a single answer or even a small number. I think we've really got to be looking at this question across each of our different touch points and each of those different application boundaries, really. And David, have you seen the broader thing with the other newsrooms? Yeah, I just want to underscore something Matt said really. I think, you know, this is one of the most interesting and exciting questions for me personally in in working with this cohort. And it's Something that we, as we've been doing our experimentation, which is very much focused on workflow and sort of the existing business and how can we find efficiencies and free up people's time to do other things. There is, you know, this is a big question, and Matt can attest. We have this conversation at some of our so we get together in person once a quarter. We bring together not just the cohort, we bring together academic Academics, researchers, we bring together people in the industry that are doing interesting things, thought leaders, and it's really a two or three day discussion about where the state of the technology is, where the state of our experimentation is, and kind of what's next. And during our last meeting in San Francisco this fall, we had this exact conversation of, you know, what we're doing is important and will be transformational in many ways to the business model as it exists today, but we can't not talk about this idea of what happens when disruption comes in a way that that we kind of see, but it's cloudy. And I don't think the question should be like, how do we save the article or how do we drive consumption on site? I mean, I I I think the question should be is What is the job that journalism needs to do for people? This kind of gets to what Matt was saying and how can AI help us deliver that in new ways? And when I think about that, I think it really is quite an expansive question around. ways to grow journalism and the way it lives, breathes, and meets people where they are in their communities. Because we're really focused on local news. So in this case it's really focused about around geography and where people live. And I am very excited about the opportunity. And I just go on to say, I think some of the stuff that Legacy news organizations, because of the nature of the business model and the pressures they're under, have dropped and no longer cover. I would say what I would call kind of utility journalism, things that helps make people's lives better. AI can do that really well with fewer people. in a way that I'll just use public meetings. We we have a bunch of work around sort of monitoring and finding the signal, the noise of public meetings. The old way that was done was send some send a reporter to every meeting and have them sort of cover it. And That's just not an economic reality for most of these news organizations today. In fact, I don't know any news organization that that does it like it was once done. But AI and the fact that we have these public records and recordings all of a sudden creates an opportunity that we let go of, you know, I'd say two decades ago. It's a moment of imagination for our industry right now and not about saving the old ways, but about reimagining what can be done with AI today. And part of that is having this AI engineering support and infrastructure being built within newsrooms that was possible through this program. And I'm excited to learn more about what's been happening with all of the other newsrooms that are uh in this court as we explore it through this series. But before we end today's episode, I want to quickly hear from each one of you. We've spoken a lot about AI, but how are you using AI in your personal life? Jim, let's start with you because I know you have an very interesting story from Des Moines. So I'll I'll give an international example for those living abroad and a domestic example for those living here in the States. My son is a playwright. And a TV writer named Maxwell Frilick. He wrote a play called Job about a a tech worker gone mad and it was on Broadway and uh it's gone international And it's most recently been in both Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. So I begun getting these reviews and Instagrams and all kinds of content in very colloquial Portuguese. And I just screenshot them, I dropped them into ChatGPT and said, what is this saying? I get real-time English language translation, and then it says, this appears to be A play review, would you like me to phrase it like a magazine article, like a conversation, like a page in a book? And it's it's just a wonderful, wonderful practical use case. About three months ago it was in Des Moines, Iowa. My father grew up in Des Moines. David grew up in Des Moines and was the publisher of the Des Moines Register. So local boy makes good. And my f father's father, my father's father's father, my great great grandfather all came from Des Moines and they had a department store and they moved to New York in the Great Depression. And we asked Chat GPT one evening, where was the department store? Told us exactly. Of course, what clubs were they in? We went to the Mason Hall where they hung out and then Where is Isaac Friedlich buried? circa nineteen oh two. And it says, Isaac Friedlich is buried in Woodlawn Cemetery, plot number twenty-eight, in West Des Moines. I asked David Chivers, the human AI, where's that? And he says about a quarter mile that way. Let's drive over there. So I'm five minutes later standing on the plot of my great great grandfather in Des Moines. So I wouldn't say it's impossible without AI, but it saved me about a half a day. And it was cool. Helping you find your ancestral roots and being a proud dad. Exactly. It's a use case. Yeah, mine is much less interesting. I use AI every day professionally and personally. One of the things that I found really interesting, I'm a big, I'm an avid avid cyclist, so I put in a lot of miles every year. I do a ride here in in Des Moines where I'm currently based. And as Jim said, it's my hometown that's called Ragbury Register Annual Great Ride Across Iowa. It covers about 500 miles. So I have found that ChatGPT is an excellent trainer and training buddy. So I've started to put in sort of exercises and food, you know, sort of food sources and really optimizing when I need to eat, how I need to eat. And it it paid off this year. I I had a probably the best ride I I've had and in one particular day. Definitely the best ride I've had in years and and I continue to use it also and just uh I don't want to get too deep into my biohacking, but I start using it and trying to bring together all these different sources to give me sort of customized eating plan and exercise plan. I'm using it to commune with dead people and you're using it to say help it. So what does that tell you? It's sort of the two ends of the spectrum, Jim. Exactly. Cradle to grave. Yeah. Well Matt, are you somewhere in between? I'm on a completely different plane altogether, as it turns out. Um I actually don't find that I'm using AI all that much in my personal life, and I think that has more to do with the amount of time I have for it than anything What I am finding really useful, sort of quasi-professionally, are two different things. One, um, our product managers have been using Notebook LM for all of our complex projects. So anytime there's a Project charter, requirements document, a decision matrix, meeting notes, they all go in there. And now we can ask things like when did we decide not to make this feature? Or why did we choose this vendor? And very quickly the answer comes right back based on those source documents. The other one on a personal note is I do spend a lot of my time as an executive building presentations and usually building them from other people's presentations sometimes things that I screenshot it off of webinars and other places. And so the ability to drop a JPEG of a slide into Chat GPT and say, I need this in a data table so that I can paste it into Excel and manipulate it and change it to s a different thing. Every time it happens saves me an hour and I'm sure that's added up to at least a week at this point. And well the latest notebook Ellen slide generator, have you been trying that? I've tried a little bit. It doesn't quite have as much data richness as I need. I'm often like deep in the budget. But yeah, it's a really interesting development. I'm eager to try it out. That's cool. Well, okay, all across the spectrum there. Very fun AI use cases and just hearing all about just how you've been using AI within the newsrooms and the way in which this program has really been helping the local news industry. I'm very excited to explore this even further. Thank you all three of you for joining me on News from Robots and being so transparent about how this entire program came about and exactly the impact it's making in your Newsroom. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, thank you very much. That was Jim Friedlick, the executive director and CEO of the Lenfest Institute, David Shivers, the lead advisor for the Lenfest AI. Collaborative and Matt Bodgy, the Chief Technology and Product Officer at the Philadelphia Inquirer. This episode of Newsroom Robots is supported by the Linfest Institute for Journalism. To stay up to date with the podcast, sign up for our Newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. I'm Nikita Roy, and this is Newsroom Robots.