This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Ivar Krustok, the Chief AI and Innovation Officer at Delphi Media, Estonia's largest digital news brand. In our conversation, Ivar shares how Delphi is building AI as core newsroom infrastructure by building tools that make reporting faster. Using data in new ways to shape editorial decisions, and creating systems that bring product and journalism closer together. We also explore how Evar thinks about the build vs by decision and how he uses AI to prototype newsroom tools. Within hours. We Hi, Ivar, welcome to Newsroom Robot. I've been so looking forward to this conversation, especially because of the Baltic media landscape. I think I've not explored that region as much, and it's so exciting to hear about the innovation that's happening there. Thanks for having me. I also am really pleased to be on this podcast of your a longtime fan, as you know. We met last year and it was very interesting about all of the agentic workflows that you were talking about at that time, getting started, preparing a lot of the data warehouses and it was very interesting for me because I also learned a lot from you. You were at that time one of the first people telling me about how you were prototyping with AI, building out and tools to help you just get faster and building out tools. And you told me about bolts and a lot of new tools. And so I'm very excited to actually get into a lot of your personal use cases because you've been experimenting a lot with that. But at the first, I want to get into all about Delphi media, which I think in the Beltic media landscape is a household name and then Estonia especially it's one of the largest digital news brands over there and I want to get into that journey because you really thought about AI both like as a tool, but really from an organizational perspective, how you can start to push the boundaries of what's possible with your structured data and how that can all help reshape your editorial workflows. And so I want to start off from there from the beginning. How would you kind of introduce Delphi media to someone maybe who's not familiar with the Baltic media landscape and like what that journey with AI has been there So Delphi Media is the largest uh media publication in all the Baltic states, as you mentioned. The one thing that we let's say are most proud of is that we have in Estonia the highest digital only subscriber penetration rate in the world. So we have around 21% people who are digital subscribers and they're paying for the content every month. So that means uh comparing us to let's say the the biggest the players on the market while our country is small, Estonia is one point three million uh people only, then we can still see that the I think a lot of markets still haven't hit uh nearly the ceiling as uh as as a lot of them claim to. And uh the other Baltic states there are a few, let's say, not as digital, let's say subscription native. But they're also catching up quickly. And uh it seemed like uh AI, let's say, is a normal expenditure of how we build things, how we get new subscribers, how we analyze our content, and so on and so on. And I wanna and get into the journey of AI that you've had because that's you you've been thinking about it, you've told me about this three-bucket framework of how you've been approaching AI. How did that work begin towards AI? Is this something that was part of the Chat GPT boom? You were preparing for that before. As the chief AI officer over there, how are you thinking through the strategy of AI? So we had been working a lot uh on the data side because one of the teams that uh reports to me is the data team. So there we actually have been using machine learning and this sort of like AI part of AI tools toolkit already for a few years now working on the data side. But let's say we first jumped into the generative AI bandwagon when Jet GPT actually hit the market, uh like let's say g became a everyday household name rather than uh something that only the hobbyists uh were playing around with. So that's sort of when we got started and that's It came at a good time when I was actually looking for some sort of let's say additional challenges and we had uh let's say adjusted uh structure inside the company a bit. So I was happy that this sort of uh landed on my table and from there on out we actually been then working with generative AI in different aspects. And yes, we currently try to put everything in three different buckets. So we have one that's sort of these everyday editorial teams. tools that a lot of uh your guests have already talked about. We can get into th later on. And then we have these uh experimental long term projects. So these would be in house sort of chat GPT like clones and these sort of things. that we can protect our data, but we don't know actually like how or when we'll reach some good conclusion with these tools. And then the third bucket is everything related to the literacy inside the company and upskilling of workers, making sure that everybody can use these tools, making sure that when they're writing about it they have sort of background information how these tools work. So these are let's say the main uh main sort of buckets that we have defined in the company. first bucket your everyday editorial tools what does that look like what were those easy tools that you were able to build out to help your editorial teams there so let's say the the longest problem that we have been having is that the language of Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian, they're not the hugest of languages, especially when we're talking about Estonian language, then uh probably a lot of people don't know that Estonian Finnish Ukraine language is completely on another tree from all other languages. So that means previously there was uh really hard for us to do a lot of this language related tools. And uh with the boom of generative AI I would say the the barrier for Estonian language has gotten really, really narrow. We're not yet maybe to the levels of large languages, but I think that's a problem for a lot. But I think uh compared to a lot of other languages our like skill or like how well it understands the Estonian language jump I think a lot more than maybe another in other languages. So that means we were able to do these tools like really good transcription tools, summarization, translation tool, and we're trying to build these tools uh that maybe they're not only like a single use. So let's say if you take our translation tool, then because we have three main languages in three countries plus Russian language, then the tool that we built actually has like a live feed. of all three countries and you can read them in your local languages just to ensure that w we don't miss what's happening in other Baltic states because previously it was it took relatively long to get like information from one country to another country, but because the token prices, all it is translation and everything has dropped massively over even the last year and if I took even two years the price for all of this has almost dropped to I don't want to say nothing, but uh almost nothing, so that means we can actually make uh really good tools for everybody to use. And we are seeing that actually these are helping us find information faster and share information faster. And so you've built out basically a live translation into all of these different four languages, audiences, your editorial teams are able to access it in real time with this feed in the language that they choose. And is this just like basic What's the underlying model that you're using, or did you have to do any sort of fine-tunings and a lot of error corrections with the language? For these Everyday tools, I would say that we haven't gone into that much like uh corrections adding like knowledge base in these because in many cases they don't they don't like give editors like uh a ready article, they're just providing information. So in these cases we haven't done that a lot because that's why I call them like everyday tools because What we hope to achieve was trying to get like these basic tools ready as quickly as possible in a way that provides value rather than like going into the nitty gritty and making sure everything's perfect, making sure that the UX is perfect and like We tried to like basically remove all of those barriers to ensure that we're actually delivering these products that probably a lot of like uh major news Or a lot of major news publishers had had for years, especially the ones that have uh English language and uh like larger language sets that uh we didn't have. So in these cases no, but in our other projects we uh we had to tackle that uh quite a lot because one thing that I think I mentioned uh when we met last time I think was that But the language a lot of times uh it's uh what in Estonia we call like Est English. So they have let's say the grammar is all there. But uh the sentences are built in a way that American language is built rather than uh how the Estonian language is built. So you yes, you understand exactly what it's trying to convey to you But the forming of the language is incorrect. So that's let's say one of a good examples how you can tell in Estonian language that something is written by AI and you're seeing like this over and over the same exact mistakes. of how a sentence is formed and they d haven't taken care enough to actually format it correctly. Interesting. So it's like an American version of Estonia that comes out from these AI models instead of what a native speaker would actually be speaking. This is actually happening uh already. I would say this has been happening uh already without the AI because we are really, really influenced by the Western media. And a lot of like uh people are growing up in in Stone because again we're a small language, that means we don't do dubbing, we don't do these sort of things. So This is also a like additional barrier for how our sentences are formed or or how how it also shapes the like narrative of language. It's interesting actually how the language is going to be affecting the broader countries narrative and everything just through how the AI models are also putting out their content there. So you spoke about the basics of summarization, translation, transcription being an everyday tool. I want to get into that longer bucket because that's the more exciting, I would say, interesting stuff that you've been the experimental stuff, the longer term projects. What would you say is like really like an experimental project that your team is working on right now? And how do you know whether it would work or not? How do you decide the ROI on these kinds of projects? I think the largest project that we have been working on is sort of trying to copy ChatGPT as an internal tool using either models that we can get from our partner Microsoft Azure or then using Hugging Face and so sort of getting models from there and then storing them in our own uh cloud infrastructure because a lot of times there are really, really I would say niche But really valuable language models out there that do a really specific job really well. And they might be really bad for other things. Probably a lot of your audience knows this. But in our case then we're trying to mix and match these different models to ensure that this sort of tool can handle a lot of things. that maybe if we were to provide it to all our editorial stuff, then that would mean that we would have to basically have let's say four or five different subscriptions. to ensure that they're actually getting the different like value chains that these uh like large language models are actually offering. And one of the projects that told you like This building our own ChatGPT. So this is starting uh or what we started it from was actually trying to build our own archival tool. So we've been 25 years, three or four languages, three countries. And we now have an archival tool that yet is not maybe functioning perfectly, but at least all our text is in a vector database and we can actually ask Okay, give me quotes from this person from this period, and we have a really simple tool to actually go back in into our archive and find these sort of uh narratives that were happening. So this is sort of the baseline for this tool. And now we hope to add different uh different models there. So one thing that I just saw like last week was uh was a company released uh and I really don't know the company because it's uh again a Chinese model, but lately it seems a lot of these let's say top notch models that are coming out was Chinese model that could offer you deep research functionality. You could hold this model on your own servers. So that means you can get the price really down and you can ensure that again you know where this all the information is stored and make sure that your editors feel feel comfortable enough with the platform to trust it to upload files, make sure that when they delete files, make sure that uh nothing is being trained on and these sort of things I think that's it's becoming more valuable I think uh day by day depending on where where the politics move. Yeah, and I think that's very interesting the way you frame it. Like we want to build our own Chat GPT. Well, I would say it's like it's your company's Chat GPT version. It's your own platform that you can safely access, upload documents onto and you're not locked into a specific model. Because as we know these days these models are evolving so quickly. They're in competition with each other. you go and sign a deal with Chat GPT to have a bunch of licenses, then it's not the same as maybe tomorrow Claude has a better model or Gemini comes out with better models and then you're kind of stuck with one. This way is the idea also that you're able to switch between different models easily. easily, you can bring down the prices as a result of using these kinds of open source models. Is that sort of what started and what was the reason kind of to even start this project in the first place? I think one of the main reasons was like you mentioned like a lot of larger companies get these contracts with uh let's say Jet GPT or OpenAI. Google and these sort of things, but if you're on a larger if you're on a larger market, it's easy to get this sort of contracts where you get free licenses and so on and so on, you get better support. just because they value our news content, even if they're not saying it maybe as outly as I I would like them to say it. But if you're on a smaller market then you have to sort of ensure that your four hundred, five hundred employees, uh because we have a large newsroom, that they could also access these tools. And if we're talking about uh price for all of these licenses, then yes, it's gonna take me months and months to ensure that this uh platform gets built and is let's say almost on par because it probably never will be as good as uh as a ChatGPT or Gemini or whatever these platforms are. But uh at least I can maybe give some additional value to the editorial team that maybe these platforms by just having a subscription cannot give. Let's say incorporating tools to analyze images from like Like satellite images, just build a tool for specifically this for the editorial stuff. And probably if I was Gemini or let's say Anthropic or this, they probably are not gonna build something that's really, really specific for this individual use case that's easy to use. That's where either custom GPTs and these sort of things come into play. Or then like uh people who like to tinker around and and build uh their platforms on top of other players on the market. And I think this is sort of the The thinking behind it is one t let's say to save cost and the other is to build specific toolkits inside this one, let's say toolkit that we have that uh when our editor comes, hopefully it will have a clear enough name. It will have maybe some manual and they know exactly what this one specific tool does rather than maybe having to go through the huge process of uh let's say understanding how this prompting works and okay if I want this specific think how should I even talk to the machine. So I think this in the long term, while it's much harder to set up, I think in the longer term we at least hope to see some interesting results from this toolkit. And I think that's interesting because I don't think We are evolving to a future where people need to know the basics of what AI is and what generative AI is, but prompting is evolving where you don't really need to learn how to prompt engineer. That's a task for your AI team. to know and your editorial staff already has these built-in tools that they can go and access and they can ask questions and then they can use in that way. I'm very interested in hearing more about kind of Like where are you right now with building that tool and like what have been the challenges so far in building it? Uh the initial challenges was uh again because I would say we started building this and I wanna call it l rather a toolkit because it comprises of different things, but the main sort of tool part is the is the chat interface itself with our archive in it. And at the start it was just uh really expensive because uh as as I told you previously, like the price of tokens has come down. a lot and if you have all of these ears and multiple languages and trying to then optimize the system that when you're asking something the information comes quickly, uh the information is accurate, then just sort of the scope around that is already I would say a hard task to actually accomplish. But I think we got a really good like fundamental logic how to build it and then we were almost waiting kind of for the pricing to come down to ensure that okay once we build it then everybody starts using it that we'll actually uh not bankrupt the entire company because hopefully if if you build something at least I'm hoping that people will actually use it. And at the moment we have the history there, we have all of these sort of tools, additional tools already there But it's not yet optimized in a way that I think everybody's getting the results that they're expecting. So you have to be a bit too specific in order to get a decent answer. It gets the answer, it gets it from all the ears, but it works a bit differently than just Let's say ChatGPT prompt engineering that you mentioned, it has to be a bit more specific. It has to be I would even say learned a bit differently maybe how to use it than ChatGPT and I think that's one of the hurdles we're trying to overcome now because a lot of people are already used to using ChatGPT and they're stalking with this sort of archive tool as I call it similar ways, they're not getting the results that they're expecting. So now I'm trying to sort of fix that barrier to ensure that uh the answers are more what the users are expecting. The other side of the toolkits are the additional things and I think we made a lot more progress there. So one thing that we're working on is uh let's say getting all the open governmental data that we have access now even even better than before because and we'll get to it a bit later about this agents and how we're trying to optimize agents. But on the user perspective what we're trying to do is again connect these databases, let's say court cases. We have tax returns, we have all of these different uh governmental documents that it's just impossible for even a large editorial staff to actually go through all of these documents and they're always adding these documents and ensuring that This information actually reaches our editorial staff. So we have built the court case tool. It ended up differently than I actually envisioned it. So previously what I was thinking about it when we started building it when we started collecting all of this data was that it's similar to the archival tool that somebody comes, they start talking to these cases, they look over like multiple, multiple years of these cases. But it turns out like in this case at least, the much more value is derived from actually uh making sure that once a new court case comes up, that the editorial staff learns about it, gets a quick summary about it, and then they can decide, okay, should I go deeper into this or like No news basically is here. And this is sort of one of the ways that I seem like not only this tool but multiple tools that we started building from some some sort of knowledge base. But we've seen them actually evolve over the like let's say months or weeks even when something seems like okay this is the value of it and then you're almost pivoting, still using the same data Still using the same logic but rather than maybe it becoming a chat interface, it's more of a team's push notification. with a quick summarization because you can see much more value being derived from this. And I still think that in a lot of cases we're still in the experimental mode, even if we're talking actually about okay, these are actually already shown to the users, we're doing summarization, everything and all of these things. I think the largest part still in most editorials At least I I think in most cases when when there's an AI team like uh our team is, it's still a lot of experimenting, even if we're sort of understanding like okay, this is the data that's coming in This is what we need to do, this is what we want to the editorial team to like get out of it, then I think we are not one hundred percent always what the end uh like result is what will bring the highest value. So even if you have the pieces, I think the end result might still be a bit different in like three months, in four months or whatever it is, because I still see a lot of things changing r really rapidly. And how is that tool currently the use case for the journalist? What's the feedback over there been like? If we're talking about specifically the court case one, then uh It's now been I think live for over a month where it's automatically always giving information and I think around five to six articles have come out of it that otherwise probably would have been not noticed. Because again the vi volume is there, it's not the easiest that's a interface for a human being to actually go and find these uh cases and go through them. So even with this And I would say in the end a relatively simple solution. We can see it actually providing already direct value for the customers because I checked the page view of this so nice readability for these articles and just the time saving of uh the specific people who work on these uh sort of articles. I think a lot of what the work in the experimental projects that you've been talking about and what I was very interested in, as you said in the beginning, was you started off on the data side. And really building like a data infrastructure for everything. And that's also where you I think are speaking about a lot of internal tooling to build AI agents on top, building this data infrastructure. You're talking about Let's build an infrastructure for all of our content so that we can easily access it through our archives, building an infrastructure for public data so that your newsroom and your editorial team can get access to it. And then there's also the other side of the data infrastructure where you're really building out a lot of structured data to understand your audience a lot more. And I want to get into that aspect a bit as well because that's something very interesting and I think one part where I've heard of quite a few newsrooms who want to get started, struggling with in terms of bringing all of their infrastructure together. So let's get into a bit more about What has that journey been like where you're trying to bring all of your infrastructure into one place to help understand your audience? How have you been able to build that out? That has been a relatively long process. I've been with the company almost now for eight years and I would say from day one that's been top of my mind what been working on. And again I would say that there we're currently really happy with the like foundational level of all our data. We're happy with a lot of the dashboards that we're having. We're happy with all the metadata that we're adding to all our Let's say readers, articles, all of this sort of additional information that we're adding. But I think the weak spot still is like getting the data out there for everybody. And here I see one of the like Uh hopefully within a year, hopefully maybe even faster, we see that all the like building blocks are already there because uh as I Told you before a lot of our stack is built on Microsoft Azure and uh over the years it has given us uh a lot of like really good things, but it also maybe wasn't the easiest thing to actually start building on top of Because it wasn't as mature as a lot of the other vendors on the market at that point eight years, seven years ago when we started building it. But then two years, a year and a half ago, when a lot of these uh let's say ChatGPT entered the market, Microsoft was one of the partners in open AI and we can now see that uh basically co-pilot these almost uh in every product that they're building and we decided to actually make a huge pivot from our own old Azure stack to the new like fabric stack of things and I think that maybe hasn't yet provided as much value as to the end user As uh I'm hoping that it will at one point, but I'm seeing that at least the stack that is built on top of the data that we have there and all of these sort of details that we have then we should be able to actually expand the like data literacy as well using generative AI, connecting it with all the data bits that we have and making sure that everybody has a better understanding of what's happening with the pieces that they're writing, how are the readers behaving and so on and so on, because the old structure of building different dashboards I'm not a huge believer uh of it. Uh I wasn't a huge believer years ago, but now with uh connecting agents to data and all of these sort of things and I'm seeing how much easier it is for people to understand and how much easier for them to actually make changes, I'm seeing like this will be a huge jump for actually increasing the data literacy in every company that uh puts the uh work into building it. And I think uh like so Microsoft Fabric, just for anyone who is maybe not familiar with the Microsoft ecosystem, it's uh it's a cloud-based like analytics platform. And so you've been able to bring all of that data, all of your audience data within that platform. to now not just have dashboards, which I think is, as you're saying, it's going to be going away. You are able to query your data, get answers to it, be able to understand your data a lot more and a lot more agentic workflows to be able to give you an understanding, maybe almost to a real-time capacity as that data evolves. From a user perspective, what does that look like for your editorial teams? What is that you're building that could help them? So the first, let's say, phase of this project is that But uh the same dashboards that everybody's using on a day-to-day basis, they can now again, as we mentioned, like the co-pilot uh of it all. then you can actually just open the copilot window and ask questions from the dashboard. And because it's not only connected to the view that you're currently viewing, but from our side we can actually say that okay when you're talking to this uh dashboard you can get additional information from specific tables. So if we're talking about let's say advertising, then you can go to the advertising overview dashboard and ask, let's say, what were my last week's top performing clients who had uh I don't know highest C C R? What placements uh show some sort of anomalies that haven't been there. And you can just ask these questions because in a lot of these cases if we're talking advertising, we have hundreds and hundreds of clients with millions and millions of pages. It's not always easiest to find these sort of answers uh to summarize the I don't know what's happening over a week or a month or even like half a year. But uh because the the data structure that we have in place allows the system to actually quickly get these responses So that means now instead of you going into four different tabs, filtering clients, filtering periods, doing all of this sort of work, you can just Chat with the dashboard and the dashboard will find the information from you, show actually like of course have everything tagged. So if you're seeing that okay, this doesn't really make sense, you can instantly click on it, it will show you the data. on the dashboard as well. So this is sort of phase one of this integration. This will probably not be still usable for like the entirety of the editorial stuff and the next phase that we're now trying to build out is the Let's say more agentic part of the infrastructure. So the same if we're taking the same ad inventory as an example. you will have or you already have in a test case this bot in Microsoft Teams and you can just chat with it uh Okay, so how was the inventory? You can ask the same questions, but it will not be connected anymore to this dashboard, but it's connected to the actual data, and then the agent will go through the data and answer the questions for you. And of course bringing it to even like further levels because our editorial staff they're all having Microsoft accounts that are connected to these articles. I can imagine that uh in the morning uh and I I don't wanna make the comparison to Clippy. But uh it's getting to a point that it might uh it might look something like clippy where you wake up in the morning, uh when your work day starts, it will say that okay, yesterday You wrote uh these articles, you got these patriots, you got these subscriptions, it will give you a sort of summarization about your day. Again, ask if you need any help or do some recommendation follow-ups. So it will probably be in a way that's sort of hopefully not clippy level, but it will be more like uh push rather than you trying to pull the data as much as possible. So again, you don't have to go, but you're always seeing that uh this uh information is sort of delivered to you and in a written text manner because again most of our staff are editorial people they're not meant to go like On a day-to-day basis, their job shouldn't be looking at dashboards trying to figure out how well they performed or comparing uh to others and so on. Written text Easy numbers, these sort of things, I think this is when we'll finally get to a point where the data literacy is in a way at a level that I'm happy with. And where is the tool right now in terms of adoption? You said you were just beginning to roll that out. So the first phase is for what I call these heavy users. So the people who have direct access to Power BI dashboard platform, they can already use it. We have uh given that out to everybody. And uh Just last week we launched the Microsoft Teams Ad Inventory bot. So this is for a specific amount of people again. Just to make sure that uh all the numbers are correct and it doesn't lie and it doesn't sort of not only lie but like actually give you the information that you're asking for. Because uh during the process of building it, it seems that uh a lot of uh we say placements and ad inventory and all of these words that are really industry specific, you still have to sort of train a lot to make sure that every time when you're mentioning a really add specific keyword to make sure that the database sort of understands what it is and make sure that the agent understands what you're asking for. And it actually at the moment took us much more time to sort of build it out, but during this process at least now we have a better understanding like okay what are the necessary things that we have to tell the machine and how it can actually access the data. We thought it would be again a bit easier because everybody we've been using ChatGPT are just asking it. It seems like it's almost always understanding what you want. But when you're now you're building it on like data sets and really specific interesting keywords, apparently, or maybe a dreamer, but it wasn't as easy as I envisioned it actually being But I hope that this first bot uh everybody approves. No data is correct and everything is fine. And then we are then just adding different sort of bots to make sure that all the data, all the dashboards that we have will be In bot form and in like dashboard form. I want to understand a little bit more. What are all of the different data sources that you're bringing into this platform? And as a result, what are the types of bots that you're hoping to create? On top of that. So largely they're divided into different like let's say sectors. So first is I would say the largest pot that's editorial and I'm taking subscription. part out of the editorial in this case. So we are do working a lot on the of course we have all the basic things like page views, uh part tagging of articles, categories, authors, and all of those sort of things. We're now working on a lot of the user needs, article categories. a lot of the additional metadata that were on a level that's I would say okay for a while. But now when we're again working more on this uh text-based thing we have to improve that a lot and I think the data or articles as in data in this case are much more valuable the more metadata that uh humans will add to this article rather than the machine figuring out what this is. So that's sort of one bucket and the other is related to subscribers and readers on the subscriber level So again what they're reading, how many subscriptions we're getting in, how engaged they are, all of these user specific data, understanding categories. basically everything almost that we can get from this user. So the one thing that's really good for us in this case is that we have a really, really high percentage of people visiting us daily and a lot of them are paid subscribers so we we have a good amount of data about these specific users. Then we have all the ad inventory that I was mentioning so Everything related to placements and sales figures and these sort of things. And then we have maybe more on the investigative journalism. I would say the data out the court cases. We just did uh procurement the uh database that we have in Estonia we did a like connection to there and now we're just adding different data sources. So this is more on really, really heavy text base information that we're trying to map out. And I'd say others is like sort of these various things that Go into different pockets that just help day to day and I would put finance and these sort of things under there because they're slightly on a different level because we want to make sure that everything else is relatively open in our company, so that means if you know where to find it, we don't have these stops because we're trying to make sure that If anybody's really interested in something, they can find it, unless it's sort of these really heavy finance-related documents and these sort of things that uh are maybe in a different pool. And it's very interesting because like it's everything about the company, all the way from your ads, your subscriber journey to how your editorial is doing, all in this one platform. And you've built out this infrastructure, which as you said, it's Since you began at the company about eight years ago, it's been top of your mind and you're still working on it. So it shows just how it's not a simple task to do and bringing together your entire infrastructure for people who I think are getting started with it right now, what would your advice be to them? I think the main thing is and where I was really lucky with all the management team, with all the business side, and uh they have given me sort of a really good, let's say, runway. Because I was pretty sure in a lot of other companies when it would take you probably like I think it was maybe two years, but it might have been three years when I basically created our first dashboard actually on top of this data, it took us a really long time because you have to get a lot of the foundational work correct from the get-go. Because we have in Estonia we have uh Data club, I call it uh they didn't want to go with my branding, but I call it uh anonymous analytics, so AA for short where people come and complain about their life in everyday life in data. What I already see is that a lot of times people are more focusing on delivering the like end dashboard. What that usually implies is that They are just connecting data points, making sure that somehow it's getting to a place where business can see these things and then work on it. But the instant when they need to change something, the instant when they need to connect something, this will be so much more complex if you're not sort of looking at the bigger scale of the thing because uh again it's easy to get a dashboard up and running but it's really hard and it's really like we're testing intense to actually play a groundwork where okay, I want to add something and then it becomes easy because you have a really good foundation. So that was one of the reasons when I told you, okay, we are moving from it was Asia synapse before. So we're moving To this, like fabric and all of these sort of toolkits. Yes, it took us a really long time to actually move over, but mov compared to a lot of other projects where we're moving this volume of different data sets, different other things, to be in a place where we are AI ready when we're talking about the data. then it was really easy like comparatively to move over to this uh new status quo or whatever we want to call it because the foundation level was just clearly built I think that's kind of like the main thing that we need to be focusing on right now with everything is changing so quickly and you're thinking about AI ready, but is your data infrastructure ready? Because if that is not, you are not AI ready, I think No matter how many tools you're putting out in front of your audience or releasing, it's all about the underlying data infrastructure. And that's what you've built out, which I found very impressive. And You spoke a lot about a lot of the internal tooling that's happening. I'm curious how has Delphi been approaching sort of the audience-facing side of AI? Or have you been taking a bit more slow on that and focusing a lot more on the internal stuff and getting your foundations right? I don't wanna maybe compare, I don't know, but slow and fast maybe in this sort of specific case, but we have done experiments. Uh a lot of the front facing things that we're actually using, we're using turb party vendors just because one thing is just the pricing model in a lot of cases. You have to be really clear because as I mentioned We are in a really small country, but actually our readership daily is relatively high compared to even a lot of like uh bigger publishers because sort of we are the go-to place. And actually it's the same for our largest competitor on the market that's also privately owned, similar to us. We have high engagement rates for our audience in Estonia. That means if you're Doing something that's let's say what we've seen a lot of companies do is these chats that uh help you find news, replace search with it in these sort of cases scenarios. In a lot of cases they're not profitable yet. I talk to quite a lot of publishers. It's a really good product if I'm looking at it from the end user's perspective, if I'm looking at all the readers. that might be more informed more like engaged with it, but money wise, it's not a cheap product to do. It's gotten a lot cheaper I can tell you that because again, going back to the price of tokens, larger models, so on and so on, but there hasn't been that much emphasis on like okay, if you're losing X amount of page views, for instance that had, I don't know, let's say ten advertisements, five advertisements, depending on the device. And if now this user gets the same information from a small search box You're not gonna monetize it the same way. Yes, of course, we can uh make uh assumption that okay, they're getting faster value, they will be more in a longer term we're getting this mu money back. But in a lot of cases I still s haven't seen a like a really good forking uh profitable use case for this. So in these cases where we have options like this, we're trying to use third party vendors that might be able to like optimize a lot of this workload on multiple like uh let's say agreement deals with some model or they're optimizing really, really heavily how to ensure that this language model, this prompting and all of this take as less resources as possible. To ensure that the cost is low enough for the publisher to actually get money back and themselves make a profit. So to This is sort of the argument that I'm going forward usually before we're doing something that's really, really heavily front-facing. And we have a good partner at the moment, uh Breach Media that we're doing like summarization and polling. We have been in talks with uh last time I introduced you to Mizo for the same sort of search logic, building it up, trying to understand how we could actually make that profitable. And we just uh the start of last month we did our first sort of our own hosted model and a front-facing solution. So what we did was we did a campaign where you could upload your own image. And it would generate an image of you wearing national I don't know what's in English a good word for it, but dancing uniforms. I've been told this word in multiple times, but in Estonia we have really colourful dance outfits that we do our national dances in. The problem with that is if you're you combining generative AI and somebody's face, you have to make sure that all the like uh clear linings or this flower patterns because they're really, really specific to an individual part in Estonia. And you have to make sure that the model you're choosing, the solution you're creating, doesn't mess up this uh colours or anything like that. So it can only do around with the face. And that was our first solution that we did. We partnered with uh Amazon in this case for this solution. So we hosted again On Hugging Face we found a really good model that was really specific for this. The only problem that we had and we got a lot of pictures we got on I think twenty thousand pictures generated with this tool. The only problem that we had was that Estonians their pictures aren't maybe the happiest because We live in a Nordic dark country. Even if the Finnish are the happiest people in the world, our neighbors. Their pictures aren't maybe again similar to us, maybe aren't the smiling pictures that we have in the world compared to a lot of other nations. We And all the models' faces were really smiling, really happy. And when you were trying to combine these sort of things, the end result wasn't maybe the best. But again, first test, high engagement, model was really efficiently working, a lot of things we learned from this. But these are sort of the things that we're experimenting around just to make sure again in this case again why we chose our own model, same reason. We didn't want these pictures to be stored anywhere in our cloud infrastructure, we didn't want these images to go anywhere for training. All of these pictures, once you generated it, we didn't have this image, we didn't have the image uploaded. So again, this is sort of the other part of this, either third party or even internal, to make sure that okay, when our users are using it just to make sure that we want to be upfront about what is happening to their data and how we're gonna use this data because I think uh Even moving further, this is sort of the barrier to AI generated uh news publishers and sort of trust driven AI using news publishers. And I think there's a really, really huge difference like how you're playing out on this like scale of things and where you're using it and how clear you are when communicating to your audience how you're using it. And I find that very interesting because I wanna talk to you more about sort of the buy versus build decision that you have to navigate. And it seems like from what I'm understanding if it's core to your IP where your data is core to your IP, you're not outsourcing that to a vendor, but something like maybe just like summarizing information, all of that is more I would say table stakes at this point where it's you can get a vendor to give summaries or help you with putting a chat bot and just creating an experience that's okay for you to go and buy from a vendor. How are you navigating those buy versus like let us host worse internally decisions? I think one is and I think that's also like sumversation and then also one of the questions is okay, our text the text that we're giving now to this sort of company to make sure that okay they know where our data is and we have a really clear contract of what is happening to the articles that right we're writing. And the other side is I think the same that I mentioned, okay, if there's a user interaction involved with this, then we have to be one hundred percent clear that the user understands what is happening to their infrastructure. And the other sort of third piece that I also mentioned is I think it comes down to cost because uh in a lot of cases one good example is with the polling. that yes we found a really good company that does summarization and polling like I mentioned before, but in can we strip out maybe the some of the AI features because they might have a really good tool But we don't wanna spend money for fully AI things. So maybe we can even use the same tool to get rid of other, let's say, polling that we have had for years. But we don't want to spend X, I don't know, what multiplier times for an AI to come up with a question. And then I think this is sort of the the other sort of scope of things that I think a lot of companies we're seeing that not only in the media landscape, but in a lot of other cases, they're just adding AI to a thing that existed for that platform for years and years already. Marketing as a huge, huge AI increase and making life better. But In a lot of cases, like do I need this feature? Now I'm paying a lot of extra for this feature, but I was happy fully with the other features that I was getting. And I think this is sort of goes into the decision making as well. Just to make sure that uh partners are willing to not overhype the AI that uh they built into their sort of products. And I don't know if this makes clearly sense, but it's sort of I think that goes into my decision making because in a lot of cases we don't need as much AI as I think maybe people believe or want to sell you. I'm actually curious to know because I'm guessing Estonia is a smaller market where tools like Chad GPT and generative AI search have not been making as much of an impact or has it been affecting you as well and that's something that you're a lot worried about. the impact to your business model. If we're talking about news specifically only, then I think the one good thing is that Um and there's differences between even the Baltic countries when it comes to this. Estonia historically has more leaned on, let's say, Finnish as a partner, and so we're we're trying to brand the keyword new Nordics because we weren't led into the old Nordics so now we're trying to be the new Nordics so we could get into the club. But One of the good things that has come from this is it has gone down relatively last years, but trust in news and what usually happens when there's higher trust in news is you get a lot of direct traffic. So this means if uh Facebook changes the lar algorithm, if Google decides no no everything is gonna be like AI mode or AI overview and these sort of thing, of course we will be hit. But I think compared to a lot of other markets that are, I don't know, getting fifty to seventy percent of their traffic from Facebook, Google and other third parties. I think we're in a relatively good space. If I'm talking about user then I think because Estonia is a tech savvy country then I think our adoption rate is relatively fast because uh the age of people who are tax heavy people I think is ends in a much higher level than i in a lot of in a lot of other countries because in Estonia Yeah, you have to know how to use digital platforms to basically do most of your day-to-day life compared to let's say even our relatively close European uh countries. And that's very interesting. And I think Wanna also get into the final bucket that you had spoken about, which was about AI literacy and training your journalists. You had actually when we spoke last time, you mentioned that this was the an area that you were the least satisfied with and you were not happy with how it's going. Why is that? I think the the problem here is not that uh people aren't willing to like learn about new things because we did like our first initial rounds where we were teaching people how to use Chat GPD, we tr we were trying to give them background information. can order like outside uh teachers to train these sort of things. But I think like the main concern here is I don't but Think comes back to like the long term projects that I was talking about. If I go there and I'm more than happy to teach. These four hundred, five hundred, six hundred employees that we have in different departments, how AI could help their life. I want to make sure that okay, once I do that they can actually then use the products that uh I'm showcasing I'm uh or whatever third party like teacher comes. I want to actually make sure that okay if they're learning something, they can start using it into their day-to-day life because the first rounds that we did, now we have I think 80, 80 or something like that, the premium chat GPT that the company's paying for. I think a lot of other people have their own accounts, of course. We don't monitor it uh or block it in any way, sort of, because it's almost impossible to do it anyway. And I think the main problem that I learned, okay, if I just keep on doing this, then how do we manage the accounts? How to make sure that uh everybody has access to it they can use it for work and they can like figure out what to actually do and I think that's also a learning point I think that uh now we are going in a let's say a different route and goal hopefully will still be the same that everybody understands. Everybody can use these products and so on and so on, but rather than maybe me starting from a point of teaching them, because we already have a a good enough workforce that uh is good at using these tools. These are now split into these, let's say, gatherings. So more focused on the editorial side of course still in the company. But now we're trying to do at least uh every other week, not during summer, but Popolinow starting again once everybody gets back to work. Where everybody is more of an open discussion. So first P uh me and uh like technical chief darma baiou who's working on more on the editorial side of the implementation and helping me figuring out like okay if I build some sort of tool Where should I navigate it to make sure that the editorial side is happy with this? Then sort of supporting him on the editorial side are a lot of like other people who are more tech savvy on AI, maybe have invested more time into actually learning this. So these sort of people are more on bringing ideas to the table in a way that Okay, this is how I'm using it. Can we improve it? Or how can we scale this use case that I am now sort of doing alone? How could we scale this use case to all the other employees? So we're first trying to figure out on a more more like individual editorial level of what is main things that will help like half of the employees and then sort of go back into the teaching where we have these toolkits built uh that are good for these specific things that we are we are seeing at least will drive the highest uh return of investment rather than just giving out everybody like this license and you can do sort of whatever, but what are these specific things that I would do in order to like sort of enhance my work life? So these are sort of the main questions and why I'm not happy yet with the literacy. It's getting better, but I think we just need to say build better before we actually increase the literature. And I think that's a Issue I feel like I'm hearing from a lot of places and seeing a lot of places is it's also sometimes just getting them to start adopting it and figuring out for them to be able to find what the tools are and having access to that and figuring it by themselves out. I want to actually just kind of get into an wrap up with understanding a lot more about your AI tool usage because I think you are one of those real power users that I always have so much fun chatting with. Cause I learn and you tell me all of these tips and tricks about all of these new AI tools and new ways in which you're getting AI to build and helping you build your new tools and stuff. So what's in your personal AI stack right now? And at what do you use the most? So one of the main features, and I think that that was the one that you were hinting at is uh how I now try to And prototype things and how to make this sort of even let's say even smaller tools than uh sort of the translation and uh subscription and whatever these uh specific tools were is that I think maybe your your listeners have heard about MANUS AI. So it's a agentic AI sort of toolkit again, I would say, because it's really good at different things. And one of the good things that it is, it's I would say that it's a bit better than ChatGPT's deep research because just the way of how it's helping you with tasks. So my usual workflow is that let's say I want to build a tool for a specific thing and I know there's an API out there. So because a lot of times the AP documentations have like so many different uh endpoints, they have different pages and pages of documentation and I just tell them okay this is the URL I need to build this tool could you do a documentation for me to build this specific product So what it does, it goes through all the API documents and it formalizes with examples a really good document for me to use to then build something. And of course I'm not building it myself. Then I'm using uh it's now called I think Google Stitch. It was used Galileo before. But uh that helps me do a Figma design. So again I can use uh a lot of times just to get my prompt better I would use ChatGPT to help me create these design prompts for this platform and then Stitch helps me create the Figma design for the same tool that I'm now have an API document for. But rather than again still writing the code myself, I use uh Versal's V0 dev And what I can do there is connect the same Figma design that I just created and connect the API document that uh was just created. So now I can tell this, okay, I'm building a platform that does specifically this, these and these things. Use the design that I provided you with and use the API document to actually create this connection for me. And again, then it basically creates me a prototype based on the design, based on the API connections already. And then I safely store the like connection credentials and all of those sort of things if that is needed. But in a lot of cases because the platform understands really nicely the other machines sort of work, then it creates the most of the connection layers really easily. And rather than then going let's say to the business side saying that okay This is my vision of this platform that we're building. I can already send them a test link. Like, okay, uh we talked about it a while ago that something like this would would help. Like Is this something you're envisioning and it would already have like some sort of mock data already, live data from the API and a mix of these sort of things? And the business side can then actually sort of feel and use it without going through a multi-month process of discussion and arguing before actually like anybody really seeing what the like end product would look like. So that's one of the largest use cases that I have. And how long does it take you for the entire product build to show something? It depends on the of course the API and what I'm trying to build, but let's say if a simple thing I did Google Trends. They have a relatively easy like API that you can do, relatively easy design that they needed. So you can get a working prototype in like three hours that's from zero with a design that and access with live data that's just working in three hours and usable. So you could actually just share it around and everybody could use it in this case. What was that prototype you built out? It was all about go on Google Trends? Yeah, Google Trends. We I started off with trying to build actually Google keyword planner, but I had more issues with With uh connecting and a lot of times the largest problem with these tools is actually building a safe connection. But in that case, yeah, the trend part took me just a few hours and it's something that's easy to use and it removes most of the things that maybe people don't need in Google Trends. We need really specific things for news there. That's so cool. Yeah, I know it's a The ability to, I think, now prototype something and then be able to have a discussion on that. Otherwise people are just not seeing a product and you're thinking. Just talking into ten air basically and Yeah. The I've seen a lot of issues come up with that that uh you're in a meeting and you have a really fancy presentation and you're talking about all the features and once you get it ready they're like This is not what you talked about and everybody has a different opinion of what it what the ending will look like. Exactly. And this way it just so much more easier. You can stress test things. You can start to see whether this idea fits or not. And I also find it a good bridge to between editorial and product. And so that way it's n sometimes editorialists trying to say something and get their ideas across, the technical team can quickly prototype something and show and understand whether that's what people are actually meaning. And so I think it's really, really helpful that way. And the other side where I would say the like agents have helped me or let's say the editorial stuff, while I don't have a like a released article from this this sort of data but uh where I found it really helpful is a lot of these governmental databases. They're not meant for like this bots and so it's really hard to scrape this data even if it's like publicly available data then you can now build really easily like this bots that You're seeing it running, you can't trust your credentials for it because you're setting up the browser and everything. And what it does is just basically helps you gather automated and really formatted data from a lot of places that maybe weren't too happy about pot traffic. But because uh let's say agent pots they're basically behaving like normal browsers, then in that case you can automate the funnel where it's just I don't know, you're gonna keep it running for the night and it just automatically logs in, searches, copies the data, copies the new name from an Excel spreadsheet that you just did and just copies like multiple, multiple tabs of data and you're just keeping it running for the night. And yes, theoretically when they're like, I don't know, some places looking at logs, they're seeing that you did a huge volume of searches. From their perspective, it looks like a human being is actually doing these searches because It's a normal browser, it's running on a virtual machine, or you can even have it running on your own desktop computers and so on. So I think this is one of the things that I hope to at least the second the like the second half of this year like more focus on how to get these let's say automated workflows using agents in order to gather like this valuable data that's in some cases not that easy for our robot to scrape. And impossible for a human being to actually scrape. Yeah, a new way to scrape data with agents that's making it possible. Well I want to understand also, has there been any new ways in which you've been personally using it apart from work, any fun use cases for AI that you've had? I think the most fun one is that I figured out that uh Microsoft Paint has no AI integration and because I have two small kits and one is sort of Now getting into drawing finally. I found out that they have a really unique feature where when you're drawing something, you can write on a window next to it, like what are you trying to draw. And it's live generating from your drawing the thing that you're trying to draw. The sad part of it, because my son likes to draw like uh uh road signs. Okay. He got really angry with the machine saying that AI doesn't know anything about road signs. But it was uh like I think one of the like more fun use cases. But I even like uh it was just over the weekend uh I was in uh Warsaw, Poland, and I think the main use case is that I think a lot of people are using it now is like recommendations and uh just things to see and uh what is happening in the town and it was really really helpful compared to like the old way of doing things Oh yeah, yeah, that is my guide everywhere I go whenever I travel. It's I think it's either chat GPT or Perplexity that is helping me make my decisions of what I need to do with my day when I'm visiting somewhere new, not Google anymore. Yeah. And what's really cool about hearing about Microsoft Paint because I didn't know about that. It's been ages since I've used Microsoft Paint. So that's a cool new trick about how it's evolving there. So Ivar, as always, I learn so much when talking to you. And it's so interesting to hear about Delphi Media's approach towards AI. And as I've been saying throughout this entire conversation. I think you're setting up the infrastructure to be able to be ready for the AI era. And I think that's one of the key things. It's been a long journey as you've been showing. And thank you so much for talking all about and being vulnerable about all of the issues that and challenges that have been coming up in actually building together that entire infrastructure and it'd been so insightful to hear you share all of these use cases. So thanks again for joining me on User and Robots. The pleasure has been all mine and I think one of the good things about AI with the sharing and everything, I think this is let's say the first sort of the revolution where I see that like news publishers are more openly sharing what they're working on. So I think this is like something that I was hoping that was years and years already it would be happening. But at least finally we reached the point where we're seeing that it's actually more valuable for us to sort of share what we're learning share like what are the like downfalls, the what are the good use cases and these sort of things. So I think again This is sort of the thing that will lift us up. And so that's why I said uh previously that I'm a huge fan of your podcast, just for this reason that people can come here. I reached out to a lot of your guests that were on here And so sort of the same from from my end, like more than happy to share like directly with other publishers what they're working on, what we're working on. Because I see like the huge value coming in from that. Like I say probably tens and tens of hours just because a few talks that I had with other people that are basically struggling with the same issues that I'm struggling at the moment. So it's thank you. Thank you for sharing all of that here. That was Ivar Kristock, the Chief AI and Innovation Officer at Delphi Media. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter. at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.