This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is George Podeski, the Associate Director of the Jesuke Journalism Fellowships at Stanford University. A former investigative reporter, Georgia has been teaching AI in journalism long before the rise of generative AI. In this episode, we explore how journalism education must evolve to meet the challenges of AI. Georgie shares how he's embedding AI literacy in his classes by helping students separate hype from reality, challenge bias and experiment responsibly with emerging AI tools hi Georgie, welcome to Newsroom Road. Hey Nikita, it's great to be here. It's wonderful to talk to you today. Same here, and I'm very excited to actually. explore in depth today a topic that I want to get into, which is how should journalism education look like with all that's been in an AI-first world and so more specifically just how do we integrate AI into journalism training? And I'm so excited to talk to you because this is something that you've been actually working on Way before ChatGPT was launched and before AI was the cool thing, you were teaching AI to journalists. While you were completing your PhD at the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism at the Arizona State University. W And just last fall, you took that course over to Stanford and taught it in the graduate students over there. And so I think from your experience in integrating AI into journalism, I really want to get into just how we should be thinking about the future of that education because the building that curriculum is really complex. You want students to have that hands-on experience with AI tools, but then also they need to have that critical thinking. and not just how to use the AI, but how does it fit into the broader context of journalism? So want to get into that today and if you can start off with just Telling me, how did you start thinking about designing this course where AI and journalism, what were you really hoping to focus on that students can take away? Great, thank you. Like I said, excited to be here and and you and I have been talking about this topic for a while. So let me start with a little bit of background and I've been an investigative reporter and editor, worked on various projects in in my career as a journalist that involve like public records and data. Things like ICAJ offshore leaks and I in parallel I've been teaching something that we used to call computer assisted reporting, which later evolved. I know it's it's gonna sound like kind of all evolved in what we now call a data journalism or more uh recently we also have OSIND and as a sort of like a trend in journalism education. And over the years Much of my teaching was always actually about demystifying technology for journalists. And one of the biggest lessons that I learned through all of that time and work is that the tools that we use, they change and evolve. over time and sometimes even rapidly as we can see these days, right? So the with AI. But some of the fundamentals and some of the sort of like underlying concepts that they remain. And for example, there are already kind of proven limits of computational technologies. Right. And then second thing is that you referred to that really kind of struck me was my my doctoral research recently. I'm originally from Europe, Serbia where I'm from, over there. You work to become a profession, then later in career you do your doctorate, which I did now after I I had a professional journalism career and Yeah, like you said, started before Chat GPT frenzy, much of like focused on the way that AI is gonna impact journalism in the future and you know launch several projects, research projects in that area, kind of exploring automated journalism, detection of AI generated news, you know, a bunch of like and obviously use of uh large language models in journal and so on. But when ChatGPT was launched And when the news coverage really kinda exploded, right? So what we have seen that was like post launch. I've seen a this is a lot of the attempts from our colleagues to you know think about AI and how it's making our jobs better, easier, looking for that next sh next shiny object, right? But also a lot of on the other hand, we had, you know, a lot of critics and threats to journalism as sort of business models. So in all of that, I started thinking about, okay. We as journalists we tend to ignore the the fact that the media is also responsible for the ways that this major topic is being reported, actually. So, like, yes, this is great. It affects us in our work, it affects And so ever since I could not stop thinking about that coverage, you know, the hype, but also the fear-mongering and kind of existential threats on the both sides, you if you think about. And all these narratives were were in a way exaggerated. and kind of increased the media attention to AI and you know kind of in a way contributed to this AI media hype that we have seen, right? So and we're a part of in a way. There are a bunch of scholars kind of exploring this sort of Th the notion of AI as a snake oil, I'm sure you know. There's a really good book. But what I became interested is really Why are we falling for the snake oil? Especially in journalism, right? So what makes us be part of this sort of promotional culture of AI? And when in essence our service is to serve the audience. and serve like in the public interest. And so like thinking about that hype and everything that happened, going back to the idea of like why we should and how we should be teaching AI You know, this is one of the many reasons of obviously why students and young people, uninformed people are in general are thinking that AI is some sort of magic, right? It's some sort of magic that can turn your Whatever you're working on into something fast and spectacular, whether it's your coursework, your essays that you're writing, And they're not aware of these fundamentals that I've been talking about, about AI, that are really kinda fundamental limits of computational theory. I've been reading and studying about, you know, infinite loops are the great example. When a computer is in the glitch, So that's happening with AI as much as we think that it's not. So that you know hackers have been exploiting that notion so many times. So there are huge limits also like probability theory. And that's probability theory is based for large language models, right? So in terms of having space for various and different outcomes of the same prompt that you're you're putting in, right? There are limits in terms of like abstractions, you know, emotions, spatial concepts, culturally embedded biases, you know, if you think about Deep Seek is now kind of great example of yes, it's great, it's cheaper, but it brings also cultural cultural bias. From those who created those tools, right? So and I'm not saying that Chat GPT does not have cultural bias, but it's just like it's different Right. So thinking about Deep Seek as a sort of originates as a Chinese technology, cheaper, but also bring some of the values from that society. And so All these are misconceptions about AI, right? So instead of like we should have started with sort of like simple questions, okay, what is AI good for and what is not good for? So When I think about that through my research, I went really deep into the history to kind of start looking for those answers. And you know, and I found like an art this is this is I'm gonna send you this link, but like there's a New York Times article. from like 1945 that introduces first computer ANIAC, right? It was welcomed as a sort of like new, the next big thing. And it's really sort of like the headline is like Here's this giant electronic brain that would find speedy answers to all complex problems we have in science and in math. Okay, and when I saw that I was like, oh my god, you could just put this and replace it with ChatGPT in our age. You know, another example was also Again, New York Times, 1971. They're uh featuring Marwen Minsky, who's one of the one of the founding fathers of AI. And he's like talking about AI, artificial intelligence at that point is something that will connect humanity with interterrestrial and alien life. Very seriously. And now, like thinking of course, now no one can not admit that you know there's a huge progress between you know the 60s and when we compare first chatbots like the Eliza chatbot that use Rogerian therapy as an approach and more of the conversational tone where we have Chat GPT. But you know it's all about that context by the way. This is not a product placement but computer history museum you know has this great exhibition if you come to the bay area whoever is here of the history of chat bots and you should go check it out the whole history you can play with Eliza and all these tools so Going back to the contemporary coverage, some of these many news stories that we have seen were more like a speculative fiction sometimes than real journalism reporting, honestly. And I don't think that You know they these narratives, these stories were not only downplaying sort of the risks of AI and the threats of AI, which are pretty serious, but they were also downplaying the real potential benefits of AI. So this is a really and I'm sorry very long way to answer your question about my class, but when I was designing my curriculum uh even early on the version at the Cronkite I really thought about, okay, we need to focus on on what we you and I call like AI literacy, right? This is so important and fundamental that we bring this critical thinking mindset in sort of also. being a journalist, being an investigator, reporter, thinking about how do we bring those skills into this. So this class is really sort of like trying to balance those critical thinking mindset, like it said, AI literacy. In focusing on specific tools that help students learn through experimentation. So AI literacy, meaning understanding AI beyond the hype. Including some of this historical, cultural, and philosophical context. You know, some of my students were like, whoa, we're talking about ancient Greece here. And I was like, what the ancient Greek myths have to do with AI. Well, you know, people have been thinking about creating artificial machines for centuries. And it's so important. And also like philosophical concept context is incredibly important. But then, you know, how do you teach something that's not even like in the case I remember Notebook LM was not even launched when I started? How do you teach something that it's not even there yet? Right? So And I found it that hands-on experimentation, kind of having that controlled environment of a newsroom where we can discuss, you know, those fundamentals and then experiment directly with the use. of some of these tools and kind of have a conversation about their limitations and strengths is the best way to learn. And of course, you know, providing sort of like kind of ethical considerations, you know, how you would use something like this in your own reporting, and on a top of that, using investigative skills that will help them kind of scrutinize AI and all this thing. So in short, I really thought about How do I teach AI to see AI more than just a tool? It's a sort of like a socio-technical phenomenon that needs obviously more critical engagement, whether you're using it or you're covering it. And these days really If you think about AI, AI is more than just a tool. It's someone can argue that it's also a ideology. Especially place where I live. Here in the Silicon Valley. Yeah, Silicon Valley. We have serious attempts to in various sectors to replace human workers with AI, right? And especially these days where surfacing all these ideas about government workers being replaced by AI. And I I honestly believe this is a really wrong assumption that AI it should be it's obviously a complementary tool for humanity, right? So it's not gonna replace us, it's just like It's gonna make us do some some of our tasks like faster, better, more efficient, and so on and so forth. And that's why it's So important for kind of journalists to be at the forefront of understanding AI and also experimenting with AI, just as you said, because We need to understand what is hype instead of just being sold what tech companies tell us and not fall for that snake oil. And the other flip side to that is journalism students coming into the world right now. The tool is changing and it's like you don't know how to go onto Microsoft Word and type and it's gonna be the exact same thing when I do a lot of my work training journalists in newsrooms. And if you're having journalism students just coming out who don't really know how to be integrating with Chad GPT and these tools, that's also a huge challenge for them. But then a very important point that you were talking about was like The tool was changing. Notebook LM came out halfway through while you were doing your course. You do not prepare students for that. And so how are you structuring your course? to help students understand what are the core fundamentals that they need to be understanding and working with AI and then that human AI collaboration with journalism, how are they working on those through those hands-on experimentation? Right. So I mean thinking about a structure of the course, like in some sort of specifics, it was a mix of lectures. I would do lectures. I also had a few guest speakers also from time to time, practition journalism practitioners and and so on. But we had a lot of discussions. We had a lot of space. And that's I need to say I'm I'm in this privileged position to do this here at Stanford. right with you know all this kind of the the environment is the right one but we had a space for discussion and then space for kind of experimentation in a lab style That was all part of the class. You know, we had it on Tuesdays were mo mostly lectures. Thursdays were more interactive exercises around these tools. So thinking about, okay, there's this new tool tool coming out, Notebook LM, of course I I'm one of those like you and and some of our friends, you know, I jumped on it, I tested But like how do I teach also my students and journalists how they should assess this? Well these fundamentals are therefore important, right? So yes, you can read a you know Nikita's or Georgie's review. But the best way that you learn is by using it and experimenting on your own. And this is something that I know you've been proponent of it. Like I've been this is this is something that different kind of philosophy of teaching where the old kind of school philosophy of teaching would require, well, there's this professor authority that knows everything, but you know, how do I know something that was not even launched yet, right? So but providing those fundamentals, kind of foundations. to help them kind of think about how they use these tools, right? So it's therefore is way more important, right? Being aware of the the hype and then really kind of examining. So In terms of specifics, we did use ChatGPT a lot, we did use Perplexity, we'd use Claude, and we use Gemini. And then I added notebook LM to all of that. And we had a bunch of experiments in kind of journalism setting that you would use. Various groups would use, one group would use ChatGPT, the other one would use Perplexity, and then we would have a discussion after that. You know, what were their findings? An assignment would be, for example, here's a local city council meeting, uh ask a GPT to kind of give you give you the kind of newsworthy information from that meeting. And then the second one was of course trigger. for example, think about generating New York Times article based on that data and kind of assessing that and seeing, oh my god, like this doesn't make sense. This is not really not a good use of ChatGPT. But then, you know, we were also assessing the opportunity to convert news articles to write headlines. kind of brainstorm with all these tools and then again compare and contrast with all these tools so perplexity was much better for some of the research things that we have done, which we know, but like the finding was happening in the classroom. I love that. That was happening in the classroom and then based on the framework where you have all these assignments, you're talking to your your peers and with your instructor, of course, around, you know, we are sharing all these findings together. Of course, we did use it for data analysis and all these Typical cases but like the learning was like within the experimentation. And so how were you kind of assessing for Part of education is also assessments and that changes a lot and that's a big question for education. How were you thinking about that when part people can just go on to ChatGPT and use that. How are you structuring your activities and assignments to help for thoughtful experimentation where you were actually more focusing on the critical thinking and not just the use of the AI tool Right, that's a great question. Yeah. So and it was not simple, obviously. You know, think about that. But therefore, like I said, I had a privilege to have that classroom space. I focused a lot, like in addition to lectures, like I said, I focused a lot on the in-classroom assignments where participation was one of those important things, right? So, you know, I would try to engage the entire classroom. That's how you can assess. This is one of the when you think about education in general, not just journalism education, you know, a lot of people are thinking, well If we allow our students to use AI, you know, they they're gonna suddenly gonna write these essays that are AI generated, how do we assess that? Well, they cannot autogenerate their live responses in the classroom. Right? So that has to be something that happens in the classroom with you as a teacher. And is it more demanding? Yes it is. then grading papers and you know having another algorithm grading quizzes or whatever. So like assessing knowledge. is harder in this AI world, but it's not impossible to figure out like so that's why I'm vouching for more in-person experiences, more kind of in classroom responses were helping them to think about some of these topics versus assessing their essay or assessing their you know their writing. So I was not interested in that. And then the secondary thing, and which I need to say this is also important, what they've done at home, they all had a a topic of their choice in relation to AI, not only to AI and journalism, but topic of their choice that they would work on a kind of in a structured way using some of my investigative framework to kind of develop a proposal on investigate one of those technologies. And so this would lead them step by step to the last session we had all of them were presenting their their work in a form of obviously presentation and learning it so I had Students working on various topics, like from assessing simple tools to topics range from like self-driving cars to government surveillance to algorithmic bias. And so when I was reading reviews after after the class, they said, well, as much as we learn in the class, we also learn from those proposals. because they had to every week they had to do step by step kind of learn about that specific technology and you know scrutinize think about how would they would cover it in a newsroom if they were asked. So I think that also brought in this sort of like critical thinking mindset. You know, regardless if all not all of them will end up being in investigative roles, but This is one of those things that I found that it was incredibly effective that they focus on a specific topic, right? Versus drafting exorcists. So that's in a nutshell. You know what this class was all about. And one thing that I always comes to me is uh one of the first times I spoke at a university, and this was all undergraduate students, that I was doing my usual A talk on AI and a student asked me, I was talking about YesEo. This is a free tool where people can help generate headlines and SEO metadata. And then a student asked me, well, if AI can write those headlines. What's the point of studying journalism? Because that's exactly what we're studying in class. How to write headlines, how to write a lead. And here AI can do those jobs very well. And I think that question really sparked and speaks to the anxiety that students have as well as journalists, earlier career journalists, about AI replacing some of those traditional journalistic skills that we deemed. And so how do you respond to those existential concerns from journalism students and think about what they need to be preparing because maybe AI can do a really good job with headlines going forward. Maybe it cannot for certain places, but that's what's being used right now in quite a few newsrooms. Right. That's a fundamental question, yes, exactly. So the way how would how I would respond, I would say. Obviously journalism is more than just producing a predictive text, right? R AI can technically generate headlines but it may not be a good headline because AI does not understand use judgment It doesn't understand the context, it doesn't understand the audience. You know, you can prompt all these things, but like you still need a human to prompt all these things, right? So the value of journalism Isn't just stitching words together or putting words together. We're not text processors, right? So obviously there are different forms of journalism, but like even I was a print and later on kind of digital journal. But like it's not just like putting words together, right? So it is really asking the right questions, choosing the right angles, if you think about like that's These are all like all necessarily human, right? Thinking about context, think thinking about accountability. AI can't challenge power and investigate corruption. So thinking about decision making, yeah, AI still lacks judgment. It can predict words, but it's not a judgment. So In other words, thinking about, and someone already said this, AI is not going to replace a profession or AI is not going to replace a journalist, right? But A journalist using AI might replace a journalist not using AI. So it's it's really about That sort of notion. And thinking also about opportunities, and this is something that I've been telling, you know, sharing to my students, is that this is also a time of opportunities. So yes, AI might speed up your work by generating few headlines, right? But it will kind of open up space for you to kind of go and dive deeper on some of these topics that AI cannot do. And this is another opportunity specifically covering AI. And also that came out from the class and again some of these you know reflections that they're sharing, I told them several times, you know, that AI is not is not anymore just a tech beat, if you think about, you know, how it's changing journalism. Because AI is everywhere now. Like it's it's involved in healthcare, government, financial sector. So it's not just journalism, right? So in order to report on all these various beats, you actually need to have a basics of AI literacy. Not just those who will be covering technology need to understand how this technology works. Right. Some of my colleagues just recently, I mean there's there's so many unbelievable uses of AI in healthcare. And who's gonna report those stories? Someone who is obviously well versed with you know covering healthcare. But if AI comes in, how do you do that? So that's an opportunity, right? So that's an opportunity. Yes, there are all these threats and very reasonable threats, but like there's also lots of opportunities. for journalists in the future, right? So being educated in this way to kind of think about how do they approach some of these stories in cover because it's it's obvious that it's all around us. And that's why it's so important that AI is not just a standalone course in journalism education, but I think something that is deeply embedded throughout a curriculum where people are thinking through and having these conversations because it's impacting everything. There is no form of journalism I think that is going to be untouched by this technology. And so When a lot of journalism educators right now are figuring out just how to introduce AI into their courses, what should they do, but sometimes not clear where to start. Like, do you focus on the technical skills, the AI ethics, go on to hands-on experimentation of how I can use this tool to help with this speech reporting, what advice would you give to educators who are looking to integrate AI into journalism education? Yeah, to copy my course. I know. No, well, no, honestly, I don't know if I shared my syllabus with you, but I will do that and feel free to feel free to share it. So that's that's one of those things. But really, I mean the advice is that they start thinking from a point of view of like critical thinking, you know, obviously thinking about AI more than just a tool, but more as a socio-tech, you know, technical issue, obviously. Don't just focus on productivity. but explore all these topics that we were just talking about, right? So the there's so much there to explore. And that would that would help them also build their students, you know, critical thinking. Another thing obviously is the experimentation. Right. So I would encourage them to experiment with these tools and be very straightforward with their students to talk kind of freely and openly about okay this is this is what we know but this this is the experiment. There are limits of you being an instructor also, right? So but the experimentation will help you kind of teach. some of these complex and challenging topics in this kind of new way, right? And in this in the way that it can help some of my students are keep coming back to me from like two years, three years ago. And they're like, well yeah, you've been teaching us. So that helps me. That's what I'm thinking. I cannot just teach them how to use Notebook LM today, but you know, there's going to be a different notebook LM that will be launched in five, ten years from now. And so how do I, you know, how do I bring those fundamentals to them so they are ready to do this assessment on their own and make make their judgment based on the use of these tools. So Encouraging this experimentation is an effective way to do that because people learn, you know, through experience much better in experimentation than reading from a book. Or we'll learn differently, but you know, this is one of those effective ways. And maybe I forgot to say, obviously encourage their students to use AI. Right. And when you encourage them, I had a disclosure also, if they, for example, used AI to brainstorm or generate some of these responses for their writing assignments. Right, they will have to disclose and not only disclose but tell me how effective was that? What do they learn from that experience? versus, you know, okay, there's there needs to be a new disclosure. R Obviously the class that I've been teaching was focused on AI literacy, so I can I'm in this sort of position to say, well yeah, I want to learn how you use it. But you know, kind of have that reflection, right? And I know that was like a ban early on. Well, we're gonna ban all AI. You cannot ban this, right? So, I mean, but we can have like specific ways that we teach. And for example, in sort of like collaboration with other my colleagues here in a department, I was not doing like advanced coding or data analysis because we wanted we wanted them, for example, to kind of learn the basics. It's almost like your question with why students should learn how to write headlines. Well, in the same way You know, you should learn the basics of the coding and data analysis before you start using it. It's almost like the time with calculators, right? Calculators were banned. from math classes early on, but now like nobody really I mean actually we're using more advanced calculators to do advanced math Right. So in that way, I think that teachers across, not just journalism educators, should should welcome AI and be open to have those and kind of create the frameworks in their classrooms. you know, for the sort of right use of AI, disclosures and all of that. And eliminate honestly if there's if they're afraid of plagiarism and all of that, eliminate those written assignments and talk to a student directly. And yes, that's harder when you have like two hundred students in your class, right? To do an assessment. I mean I had a privilege of having like 30 ish because the many of the JSK fellows were also part of the class. It's harder, of course. It you know requires way more time, but like having those direct conversations and assessments versus having those, you know, written assignments in Canvas that people need to write and they they can actually easier for them to use ChatGPT to write a response. And I think it's interesting because like when I teach journalists who already have these decades-long experience and they're learning how to use an AI You already have that expertise. You already have built that journalistic judgment to know what is a good headline, what is not, what's a good lead, how should we be framing this. versus when somebody is just starting their career and haven't built up that expertise yet, but then get into an and get introduced to a tool that does seem like it does really great work. It does pretty decent work sometimes. You need to be able to prompt it well and it can do that. But then how do you kind of push them to write articles, get through the phases of making those mistakes, of not being very clear and having those leads so that they can then improve upon that. That's one of the things that keeps on like I I'm stuck at in like I I don't deal with undergraduate students. So I that's a different story that I feel like I completely sympathize with educators who are in undergraduate and the journalists in education over there, how do you sort of build that expertise then when AI can replicate that or help them think that it's replicating that at a very good level? No, I mean I'm not saying this is easy, obviously. Therefore, I think that like I we've been talking a lot about experimentation, kind of more in-person experiences, sort of like more direct ones are the ones to that can help you. Right? So versus throwing all these assignments to them and you know kind of worked at home. All these discussions that w that I had in my class were like incredibly important teaching experiences for them to think about AI. And lastly, I mean obviously like I said, the design of my course was also part of the sort of more accountability curriculum here at Stanford, so more on the investigative. So that was an important add-on. And you cannot have that in the same in all the classes, right? So the investigative reporting is kind of on the side. So but you can still have your student exploring these topics as a part of their theme and encourage them to write about AI. Right. In study AI or whatever context that we're talking about. So whether that's communication, in communication history, we we don't acknowledge technology until last century. So in other words, how do we kind of move forward that discipline? That's the closest one. But in other like humanities, talk about sort of like the digital humanities are are sort of like evolving discipline that involves using AI in studying and researching. humanities. So like embrace sort of this notion of technology that's around us one way bring in critical thinking, bring also in interdisciplinary. One of the things that my computer science colleagues here also they were amazed with some of some of the work that I'm doing and so We have this human-centered AI institute here at Stanford that's trying to kind of put together humanities and technologists together to have conversation. I've been part of these Gatherings a lot and they were like, Well, you know, there there's so much that we can learn from. So putting those inner interdisciplinary courses. Interdisciplinarity is one of those answers to kinda tackle these complex and challenging topics. And unfortunately, Inter As a teacher, you have to update yourself. You know, you know, going back to our early point about tools and AI evolving fast. Yeah, so it's that's something that's happening and you know my course next year's not you know it's gonna be updated in ways and it's different. You know, there are add-ons. I remember Google Bard was launched also in a bit like when I was teaching, right? So you have to update them. It became Gemini, right? So the Chat GPT was not even launched when I started. So in other words, you have to update and kind of keep that pace, but like I will not obsess with that. And that's my recommendation that you all you need to know the the most recent, the latest, perfect tool that can save humanity coming from the AI world. But you need to know these fundamentals and kind of observe the area and kind of include those in your curriculum. So I don't know if this answers your question, but you know I mean bringing back to another topic I think we had a conversation about before is like designing a degree on AI and journalism and we were talking about that. So I want to get into that just a bit. What do you think that would look like and what do you see those fundamental skills that we need to be leaving the generation of journalists of tomorrow with. I know. You touched me, this is dream come true, right? So I really believe based on what we just discussed Well we discussed that you know this should be a part of the kind of overall curriculums across, right? And I see potential, like I've not seen yes, the degrees of tomorrow. Like you were thinking about sort of like marrying AI and journalism. Obviously my class would be broken into several parts and because there's a lot in there, you know, thinking about the history that I've been teaching, the ethics, the philosophy, the you know, the cultural background sort of like that's more like introduction and the way how the things work sort of explaining those concepts right so but then you know the practical use of ai is another element of my class that could be another class, right? And you know, thinking about investigative methods around it. So like it's it's really I think that Universities across college should think about not just including AI in their teaching, but also thinking about how do they design. these kind of new degrees focused on AI and journalism, AI and communication, AI and storytelling, mar you know, like all these various disciplines, AI and business for sure, that would all have like various components on what I've been talking about here. but would overall kind of provide education for the future. Obviously teaching tools that are in existence right now, but teaching students, teaching them how to think about in the future. Right. So in that kind of degree, it's not only about setting up a you know machine learning model, which you know most of the AI courses right now, if you go online, will teach you the sort of like computer science aspect of it, which is great. And you know, that's very practical part. But like there's so much more that's you know it's gonna be changed in our society, in our world, it's been already changed that we should be teaching around AI. So not everyone needs to learn how to code or do the coding and even the coders are talking about how they're now becoming obsolete with yeah right uh the ability I've been using heavily actually Chat GPT and other models to kind of I'm not an engineer, but I know enough to kind of use these tools to generate my own code, like in Python and all of that. So that's really kind of great use of it But so overall, yeah, I see a lot of potential in creating those degrees of tomorrow that will embed and have that AI. you know is a part of it embedded in various courses, various degrees, various disciplines. And I think that's that's going to be happening. And I'm sure more entrepreneurial programs will start this. And needless to say, happy to talk to them, help uh create those. And especially as you were mentioning before, it's more about those interdisciplinary collaborations and programs. It's not just about having journalism but the ethics of it, getting into just the product management side and everything as well to journalism, I think it's more than just us writing stories anymore. It's It's a lot more about how do we understand an o our audience and build that product for them. And with that, I think we've covered a lot about journalism education and spoken about AI and journalism education, but I'm very curious to hear How you've been using AI in your personal life. Yeah, sure. Before I answer that, can I say something just to add something to it? So all of that that I've been talking about, I'm actually working on a book right now with another, you know, I just want to put a little bit of product placement. So uh hopefully it's gonna get uh tell us about your book. Yeah the Well the book is gonna be about what I what we have been talking about. It's sort of like helping connect AI and journalism in this way, sort of like a practical tips and tools, but sort of like helping you it's headlined as a sort of handbook. for investigating artificial intelligence but also helping you use it. So you know and I'm working with another colleague, just wanted to say Garan Sperk is helping me kind of think she's a fascinating investigator reporter at AP. We had her on our previous podcast. Yes, so how am I using I think I already answered it in my personal Life, I guess coding is not personal life, so I'm using that. But I would say I'm using it in in sort of helping structure some of my thoughts, kind of getting the feedback I think that's useful. So the that that's the kind of prediction model that works well, you know, kind of the brainstorming, getting that lifestyle bat obviously the language is kind of tool that we use to communicate, right? So and being a I'm not a native English speaker. So I I welcome Chat GPT providing that guidance, right? So that also helps a lot. But you know, like I'm mostly like looking for that feedback. And I think that's effective way. You know, I don't use it for research because I find it really kind of problematic, even though you know perplexity is kind of useful, but For example, I've been really asking my students not to use Chat GPT in in their fact checking and you know they're There are movements there but it's really questionable and it's a waste of time. So and you know going back to primary sources. Sort of like idea generation, structuring your thoughts, kind of brainstorming, that's I mean but these are all like starting points, right? So any of the final product or anything that you you think about you're gonna get from AI. And I think that's a really important thing for people to understand that you know you should never trust AI blindly, right? So it's still on the level of like an assistant and it varies, you know, so more efficient assistant to sort of like some of these ridiculous things. Like for example, the other day I was like, okay, ChatGPT, do you know what day is today? And like there's simple things that ChatGPT doesn't No, and like that's one of those things. It doesn't recognize days, you know, kind of temporal concepts are really sort of hard for and it it's been fascinating just to think about that if you say yesterday or tomorrow or you know it doesn't get the difference because it doesn't know what day is today Which it's simple as like computers know I mean there's a timer on my computer here that says what days today, but like it's not embedded in the in a large language model. And that points to the prediction part of the language. It doesn't really have that knowledge. And I think it's so dangerous because when people go to Chad GPT, they equate it to Google. And this is one of my thing I always say, like Don't treat it like Google and people suddenly are like, that's exactly what I thought I was doing. I could go just go and ask it questions and it'll give me an answer because it sounds so convincing. Well, now I need to say something. I've been teaching people how to use Google for more than a decade. Sort of advanced Google search uh ways to do your research. And what I learned is that people, especially journalist young journalist students, always think about, okay, Google was a search engine machine, right? But we always approach to Google as sort of like We can ask questions. And that was never effective strategy to get actually answers. Like so you needed to learn how to you know how the engine works and I've been actually teaching that a lot. So that's goes into the the mystifying technology, right? And I think that ChatGPT and chatbots kind of inherited that and embraced that notion that you can now come in and ask questions. Because people always thought like, well Google is the place where I can go and ask questions versus going to Reddit and ask a question or Quora asking a question where people respond to your questions, right? And I think this is this is so what is wrong, but it's connected with Google It's sort of like a next thing that kind of comes as an add-on. And you know, and in generative search, generative AI search, all these All these little blurbs that are now popping up when you you're using Google are also s very problematic. There's a research that's been already done about those that are picking up from various places very questionable statements, right? And it's so Google became distorted now based on on large language models. And this is very questionable. Anyway. Just wanted to add that you're right about it. People think about it as a sort of like this is like a next Google, I'm just gonna go ask question. Yeah, and that's gonna provide all these answers. But as you said, like you can now go and ask ChatGPT a question and what I really like using it for In the research phase is their deep research, but because it gives me a bunch of sources that exactly match what I'm asking in this long question that I can exactly say instead of just a bunch of keywords and I tend to find that I get a much better source list compared to just doing a Google search versus now doing a deep research on ChatGPT which links to all of these like 30-40 websites that I can then go and look at. But again, it's not about using the text that they give you. It's about going to the primary source. So that's important. Kind of pointing to the to some of the directions that you can go. But you know, keep in mind that that's also very limited knowledge. They don't include like so many news websites and chat GPT because they just don't have deals with them. Exactly. That's You know, the bias is in the data and not saying that the Google is not biased, and I'm not defending Google from ChatGPT. What I'm trying to say is that Still, ChatGPT are way more effective text generators, text processing tools than knowledge generators, right? So they don't There's some knowledge that are generating, but it's a plausible knowledge and therefore it's problematic. There are some people working on this topic. Some of my colleagues here at Stanford, and I think I've shared one of their research projects recently, the Storm. That's trying to kind of play with this notion between using large language models as a processing tools, right, for for your interface. and then using completely different knowledge base, right? Like using Wikipedia for some of the answers and kind of they're trying to kinda up the accuracy, kind of go up with using those tools. And this is the old and to understand this. You know why is history so important? The history of AI started with symbolic AI. I don't know how much you know about symbolic but It was a knowledge representation AI, right? So it was a knowledge graphs that we had in 10 or 15 years ago where most of the tech companies were building knowledge graphs versus processing deep neural networks that we have now. So it's been like two different philosophies, right? Between the symbolic and and the deep neural networks. Anyway Just wanted to add that there. And you know, in the class we had a discussion about that. And that was like such an important point to bring it up, like why these tools are not good in generating knowledge. Yet. Exactly. Yeah. Yet. Yet. The whole difference between what language generation and knowledge generation is. And Georgie, I think this has been so fascinating actually just understanding how you have been pioneering journalism education with AI way before Chat GPT and how that has kept evolving throughout and I think it's been really incredibly insightful for me to learn more about all of this. So thank you so much for joining me on Newsroom Robots. And sharing all about this, and I'm excited about your next iteration of this course and seeing how that evolves. Amazing. Thank you so much, Rikira. This was this was wonderful. That was Georgia Padeski, the associate director. Of JSK Journalism Fellowships at Stanford University. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation. Lab Spark Grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.