This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy. Data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI. is impacting the way we do journalism. Before we begin, I want to take a moment to honor David Shivers, who you'll hear in this episode. David was the lead advisor for the Lenfest AI Collaborative and he passed away on January 1, 2026. And this conversation was recorded the previous month. David was deeply passionate about supporting newsrooms with AI. He cared about building real capability inside news organizations and he brought so much clarity and purpose to this work. He was also an incredibly kind and generous person. I used to tell David he had one of those big smiles that would just light up a room. And I feel genuinely grateful that we are able to share his voice and his perspective here. And I hope you'll hear in this conversation. the care he brought to everything he did. This is the second episode in our newsroom robot series on the Lenfest AI Collaborative. In our episode last month, we focused on the Philadelphia Inquirer and their project Dewey. In this episode, we are going to Chicago. to hear how Chicago public media has been approaching AI through the fellowship program and what it's looked like to build trust and momentum inside a public media newsroom. This episode of Newsroom Robots is supported by the Lentfest Institute for Journalism. The Lentfest Institute is a non-profit dedicated to advancing the business of local news through efforts like the Lenfest AI Collaborative and Fellowship Program. The collaborative works in partnership with OpenAI and Microsoft To empower publishers to explore the use of AI for news business sustainability. Learn more at lenfestinstitute. org. In this episode, you'll hear from Chicago Public Media's leaders, Melissa Bell, the CEO, Aaron Pilhofer, the Chief Product and Membership Officer. And Mark Chernofsky, the AI Fellow, along with David Shivers, the lead advisor for the Lenfest AI Collaborative. We talk about how Chicago public media has built momentum with AI over the past year and how they've approached And I've really been looking for the forward to this conversation today to get into how Chicago Public Media, public media institution in the US, has really been partnering with Lenfest Institute and leading through this moment as they as you are thinking about AI. And I think what is very interesting right now is this work is not happening in isolation, as we were hearing in our past episode with the Philadelphia Inquirer, and there are so many other newsrooms, the other ten newsrooms that are part of this collaborative. who is experimenting and sharing this knowledge and taking a very intentional approach to how AI is being used. And so I'm so glad to have you, Melissa, here today. to talk from a leadership perspective, Aaron, from a product perspective, Mark from just how you are getting into the weeds of everything and to leading as the AI Fellow, the Lentfest AI Fellow at Chicago Public Media. And David, it's so great to have you back on the show. to help guide us through what's been happening and how Lentfest has plain been playing a role to all of this. So welcome to all of you onto Newsroom Robots. So great to have you. Thank you. Thank you. Well, Melissa, I'd love to start with you to just compare where has the Chicago public media been from The time you started there with the Lenfest AI Collaborative Program, to where you've seen it, especially over the past year in 2025, how has it grown in its endeavors with AI. Sure. I started here a year and three months ago and when I joined there was some interest within the organization to experiment with AI. But as with many local and public media organizations, resources are tight. We're we don't have a lot of room for experimentation. We need to be very careful about how we're making our spend reach across editorial product maintenance, et cetera, et cetera. So there wasn't a lot of deep newsroom. revenue side, business side, product side, experimentation with AI. That of course puts us further behind the transformation that's happening around the world. And this project really allowed us to kick start our efforts to learn how we can apply this technology to our work. So from a year and and change to now, I feel like we have made such incredible progress. in one, getting the newsroom and our business sides to really feel interested and curious and excited about the potential of using the tools around AI and starting to come up with some very smart ways for our audience to benefit from our work in this space without compromising the necessary humanity that we bring to our journalism every single day. I'd love to hear and understand from a leadership perspective when you are coming into this new transformation that we're dealing with as an industry. Where do you see, especially a public media institution's value and role lying in this AI-mediated ecosystem? Sure. It's easy for me to sit back and criticize past generations because, you know, I I started to become a journalist. just over two decades ago. But I do think the journalism industry w had mixed results on adapting to the internet's disruption of journalism and missed a lot of opportunity to take their journalism forward, their distribution forward, their community gathering forward with the new tools available to them. So I think it's really important. now for us to not miss this new opportunity where everything is almost being rewritten in the technology space. Around how we reach people, how people are interacting with information, news, education, how people can be creative, how you can utilize systems that make certain tasks much simpler and more effective. We really need to not miss out on using this technology to benefit what we want to do. And that is to create a well-informed public, the best for the citizens of Chicago. Aaron, if you can Just walk us through sort of what does it actually look like practically with for AI within the newsroom? How are you thinking of it from a product perspective? Yeah, so I would say that our the bulk of the work that we're doing now is very much about product development, product enhancement. I mean, Mark can talk specifically about the work that he's done around. a transcription translation that has had a a measurable impact on how quickly we can turn around content, make it available, make it easier for journalists to access and and so forth. And the work the tranche of work that we're just now sort of starting is focused on new product development, a combination of tools, both sort of traditional. Text analysis, machine learning, techniques, plus, you know, some of the things that generative AI does kind of uniquely, does well uniquely. to allow us to better utilize our archives and to create new products that can be very narrowly targeted to down pretty much down to the individual, but not in the semi-embarrassing ways that other news organizations have tried to do this. Very recently, for example. We're we're spending a lot of time ensuring that that the role of generative AI specifically is that there are guardrails around it and that we are not in the business of generating content at any point, up to and including, you know, links. We're not interested in that. We're not focused on that. But around it is is a space for us to experiment. And Mark, walking into a newsroom as their AI fellow, you were sort of the first AI engineering person to be in the newsroom and Can you walk us through what those first things that you hoped to accomplish were when you started off in your journey? So the grant uh proposal that got me into Chicago Media and Aaron alluded to the the main things we're doing transcription, translation, and in various ways content recommendation. Those three pillars are I think really interesting ways that we can use AI tools to better serve audience. We have already been translating material into Spanish. using AI as part of the workflow uh enables us to do that faster. On transcription, we have an audio archive that is so extensive we don't actually know quite how much we have. And we're going to be able to use models to transcribe that and then make that available to and I guess the wider business right alongside our print archive. So that solves uh some of the discoverability problems of that of the audio and enables us to do historical archival work in a way that that creates whole new opportunities to leverage the audio work that our journalists have done for the last 40 years. I think that's really, really interesting that you could see start to see sources coming up in in print pieces in a way that that's much more time consuming to do now. So those are the two, I guess, projects I think that I'd be working on directly. But also things come up across the organization all the time. And I think coming into this, uh, one of the things we knew was that the nature of the work was going to change as we came to understand what the capabilities of the models on the one hand and of our staff and team on the other hand. So it's it's things where sometimes journalists, sometimes people working on the business side of the organization have demands that maybe seem to them to be one off, but enable us to build systems that we can use for sort of similar kinds of thing in the future. Like for example, we had someone who came to me with a an enormous spreadsheet of data about Chicago, Chicago schools and was having trouble navigating it. And AI enabled web development processes. We were able to build a device that would enable her to to query a spreadsheet, which we turn into a database using SQL without her having to know any SQL and that is the kind of data access tool that maybe we wouldn't have anticipated in advance, but through doing the work and being known And being helpful, we're able to find. I would just like to add, I mean, I think one thing I want to say is Mark's very humble. I think he came into the organization. and really understood that there needed to be quick proof of concepts and sort of trust built. And one of the things he's done extremely well from my perspective as an outside person with Lenfest. Is really identify small impactful projects like Slack integrations of giving the weather report or the traffic report and the voice of WBEZ, which is very different than, you know, the the commercial radio. Hey everybody, the Dan Ryan is, you know, crazy today. That's not the voice of WBEZ. So he really worked with the on-air talent to to make meaningful improvements, which I think added trust. And I'd also just say from our perspective at Lenfest, there are a couple things. One, Chicago public media is a unique institution in our collective because they have both the public media radio assets and they have a traditional print and web publication in the Chicago Sun-Times. So we were really excited to have them as part of the mix. And all of those little experiments that built trust are, you know, experiments that we think are really valuable for smaller organizations that are just getting started. Because some of the work that we're talking about is enterprise intensive, whereas some Slack integrations and some other things that Mark has been working on in the early days of joining the team, I think have, you know, very quick application or pretty kind of shovel ready for smaller news organizations. And I'd love to hear from both of you, especially Aaron and Mark. How are you figuring out what are those pain points in workflows across the newsrooms and prioritizing where you need to be able to target and find a solution for using AI? I think Mark actually this is a perfect question for him because, you know, he has to David's point exactly been incredibly proactive in getting into the newsroom, getting the yeah, newsrooms are tricky places, you know, and especially for non-journalists. and building that kind of trust. So Mark, why don't you talk a little bit about how you've managed to do that? For me it's about getting to know people and getting to know the the work they're doing in making people use AI because I think AI is for some reason like epistemically important. We have this new tool, a tool that is different in many ways from the other kinds of computational capabilities we've had before, and it offers So it offers some new things and there are some tools that are kind of AI shaped and or some problems that are AI shaped and many that are still not. And I think People's reluctance and fear is around people who've come to them with an AI solution to a problem that they don't have or a problem that is not well solved by an AI system. So for me, I've really made a point of trying to get to know everybody and trying to make myself available when people hit those tedious barriers. that a more sophisticated automation system or a more sophisticated understanding of language can really help with. And then in the process of having successes with people on projects like that and in the process of getting to know those people delivering trainings, um, talking about my work and just sitting with people. hearing what their workflow is, things naturally come up. And they they they come to me and then we myself, Erin, other leadership at CPM and and figure out What's a good use of our of our limited resources? And how do you decide and track whether an AI product experiment is actually working? What signals are you usually looking for that matter most to you? At our scale, we can talk to people. That's the the beginning and the end of it. There is some like analytics capability that that we could use for certain things we will be using for like larger organizational deployments, but But for us, the most important test is so you have this problem at the beginning. We've given you a new tool. How is it working? Does it solve your problem? What would you like to see in it? And then I go and I'm Fix the issues or we talk about why those issues can't be fixed and and figure out what a way forward is from there. And Aaron, I'd love to hear from you actually just from at a higher level and thinking of like the products and where they are headed towards, how are you seeing how product development is also evolving with AI just within the newsroom itself? Yeah, we're like I said, we're experimenting in some in some new spaces trying to find ways to increase the relevance of you know, what we produce every day and allow people to find, you know, that needle in a haystack. You know, what we do every day is we just produce tons and tons and tons of words and images and sounds and video and and it's just hard if you're a news consumer to to find the stuff that is really meaningful to you. And you know, traditional recommendation engines don't really do that. They sort of provide you more of the same or you know, you're a Vikings fan, so here's more Vikings. And that's not, you know, that's not where we're where we're headed with all of this. This is one space we're like having the ability to build into a tool. The tool, when I say this, it's I d I don't mean this in the literal sense, but having the ability to create a tool that more or less sort of understands you and understands what might be interesting to you and relevant, that's a really big step forward. And so that's, you know, those are the things that I think we're the most excited about. I have to just put a a moment of of levity into this with uh saying Aaron's native Minnesotan is coming through with the example of Vikings instead of bears. Uh in Chicago public media. Well I can't stand the bear, so there's no there's no way I am even for the purposes of this podcast going to abandon My longstanding sad sack uh fandom for the Minnesota Vikings. Okay. As for all the people outside of the US, this is the Which sports team are we talking about here? American football. American NFL. American American football. There you go. The rivalries of the NFL. I have to also bring back to one other thing I was when I was researching, preparing for this podcast. Aaron, I'd come across a talk that you had done back in 2014. It was on YouTube on the data storytelling conference, and your title was Building Stuff That Doesn't Suck, That People want and might even pay for. What does that look like now going into 2026? I mean it looks the same it is the same then as it is Now, I mean, where I believe this is all headed is that these tools, as they grow and evolve, I mean right now Look at the the number and level of sophistication of the tooling you can put in a non-technical person's hand today that didn't exist. Two years ago. So I have been playing around with Figma and its AI-backed design to us of Figma Make, I think is what it's called. And it's astounding what you are capable of doing. At a recent conference, we heard from a product manager at Slack who talked about how their product cycles have completely changed because product managers are now producing you know functional demos of potential features or feature enhancements, whereas a good friend, you know, you always used to say, you know, demos, not memos. And never more true than now, the ability of like a product manager, somebody to just say, Hey, I'm gonna hack something together and we're gonna see what this might be. look like rather than writing a a forty page memo describing it. So that to me is is like the most exciting or one of the more exciting developments. I'm a little more of a eager, excited by this, maybe less skeptical maybe than Mark, I want to get into that skepticism as well a bit. I'm guessing that's also helping you understand journalists And where they're coming from and empathizing with them as well. I would say so. I think the old joke that your tech enthusiast has like everything tech enabled in their home and the the engineer has a printer which she has a hammer next to to dispatch swiftly if it misbehaves. And I I kind of feel like that. Like I've spent so long in my career in various capacities wrestling with computers and I've seen how easily they can misbehave and how easily we can like lose time to computer problems where if we just done it ourselves it wouldn't have been an issue at all. And so I'm really focused on on making sure that the things we bring into this organization are genuinely helpful. And I think that comes across. I don't want to speak for anyone who interacts with me, but that is my my mindset and I hope that's what what they see. David, I want to hear from maybe like Lenfest's perspective as well. from all of the portfolio, all of the other newsrooms that are part of this collaborative. How have you been seeing the work that Chicago Public Media has been doing helping the communities from an outside perspective there? Yeah, I mean I think one of the most exciting things. So I talked already about the organization and sort of the structure of it and why we thought that was very interesting. The projects themselves, you know, that they put in the application process was really interesting to us because they were really focused around in the transcription, sort of making that available in new ways to new audiences. So that that rich trove of WBE Z content that they have. And then I think the other piece, the translation piece, really the earnestness at which they're taking an approach to try and better serve Spanish speaking audiences within the Chicagoland area, which there is that there are quite a few. And Historically, they haven't, as an organization, been able to produce as much content. One of the stories I love, and Aaron and Mark can talk more about this, but This idea of like, I can't remember, Mark, if it was you or it was one of the team members that was like, you know, it's basically last week's news, which isn't news. That was kind of the process it took to get to actually going from the English to Spanish once it went through the whole sort of human exchange. And they've found that they're actually able to turn around stories much, much more quickly. And I think that part is really important to the broader cohort to see some of those pieces. And you'll find me a cheerleader for all of the fellows. I think they're all incredibly smart and humble in their approach of really trying to understand an industry that all but one of them did not come from before this program is, you know, Mark is really an organizer. Like he takes this idea, one of the concepts of the program was we really wanted to create a community of practice among these fellows so that One, they didn't feel lonely in the organizations being the only person using those nouns and verbs and trying to sort of push the boulder up with, you know, people who are maybe reluctant, if not totally resistant, and fewer optimists that are running along with them. So I remember like it was probably a month into the program. And I sort of said to the group of fellows, we were already having regular meetings with all of the grantees. I said, hey, do you guys want to do like a fellows only every other week meeting and mark was like we've already been doing that for the last month you know and he sort of organized that in terms of a very smart structure where they're talking about projects they're looking at the work they're solving problems and then they leave a bit of time every time they meet to talk about what's happening in the broader industry, not just the media industry, but research developments in AI, new things on the sort of coming down the pipe from the from the big and small AI players. So I think that's been incredibly useful, not only for Chicago public media, but Mark is kind of a convener of the broader group, has really paid dividends to all the organizations. Mark, talk to us about what these working groups are look like in practice. What happens? Yeah, they're they're pretty varied. We started out with a v a very structured approach. We said we're gonna divide it into 20 minutes of 20 minutes of just sort of structured chat and then 20 minutes of a demo and then 20 minutes. of you talking about somebody else's work. And we had a a rotation and that worked great for like forming a culture of the seriousness and and people feeling ready to share and also ensuring that quieter voices didn't get sidelined. Over time, as people have become more comfortable with each other and have started to get in the habit of sharing things with the group, we've been able to relax the structure a bit while maintaining a number of those advantages. So what we do is is every other week we get on Google Meet and share about what's going well and what we're seeing and what kinds of practices we we can borrow and assist each other with. It's been really fun. Like it's been fun getting to know people and and over the course of of the interactions that happen. inside the Lenfest convenings and then also at at conferences and and through this group. I think people are forming genuine friendships as well, which is is really great to see. I want to just absolutely plus one what Mark said there at the end. I've been involved in so many cohort-based programs before a bit like this. And I have to say this one is really, really different because it's bringing so many people in from outside journalism into journalism and the sort of cross-polonization and I think in some ways it's kind of a model. I wish there were you know, other domains where we could do something like this actually, as I'm as I'm sort of thinking out loud. But it has been really exceptional. It's just a super fun group. They're folks are cool to be around and And it's like nothing else I've been involved in. And that's exciting to hear because I think also as the technology is evolving so quickly, we are learning from each other and collaborating with each other through this. And that's been one of those big spirits that the collaboration between newsrooms and that's what you set out to begin with the big name, right, David? Yeah, that's right. I mean, we really, you know, again, we wanted to have this community of practice for fellows, but one of the unintended benefits of the program was, and I hope Aaron will, you know, strongly agree with this. It really has created a community of practice among product and technology executives in this cohort and built some really good, I think, trusting relationships with technologists at OpenAI and Microsoft in terms of the collaboration that happens quite frequently between those organizations and our news partners. How has that helped you, Aaron, all the collaboration as also with the tech companies? I mean for the executries who are sort of interested observers rather than like deeply in the code. Which actually that's not true totally. That we have a couple of executroids here who are pretty serious uh engineers, not obviously myself. But for for us, it's great because we can sort of compare notes and and talk about, you know, what's your strategy. And make sure that we're all kind of focusing in areas that where we're not overlapping, we're not duplicating effort. That's it. And I've been to more than one convening where or you know, weekly call where someone is demoing something and the instant reaction is, oh, when can I in fact actually verbatim, when can I have this is probably the most uttered phrase at demos. So that's been super helpful. And we've also just learned a ton in being able to like rub elbows with some very, very senior, very fancy, very smart people. at Microsoft and OpenAI who have been incredibly generous with their time both helping the fellows on the technical front but also and just being available to talk to us about strategy and kicking around ideas and and things like that. So again, that's actually also pretty unusual. You know, the grantor, the ones funding the program, aren't often this involved in this project in a productive way like this. And and I think you were talking a little bit of the different ways in which like from the revenue, from a strategy, different perspectives through which you are seeing and enhancing AI in the newsroom. What would you see is the biggest thing at the start of 2026 that you are really focusing in for Chicago public media and especially as it relates to the AI endeavors that you're working on. You know, there's there's a number of ways, and I I'd probably ask Mark and Aaron to be more of the on-the-ground experts here, but I think from a large company perspective, our goal is to continue to build our membership model out. We want to be truly the best supported public media organization, fully community supported. And that means that we need to create a service for our audience that is so important in their lives, so necessary in their lives. that they want to financially supporting us. We already have a huge foundation of that kind of membership support here, but we want to ensure that we have enough support Now and in the future, that no matter what changes may come, we can continue to produce our excellent work through their support. So what that means to me is thinking about how do we use this technology to build tools that help support their needs in their lives? How are we surfacing information that they might not otherwise get? How are we distributing our information? How are we ensuring that they have the right type of information for their specific needs and not somebody else's. How are we doing the deep investigative reporting that we're really well known for, but making it easier on our journalists to not have to parse through massive data sets? How are we thinking about building strong connections to local businesses by building outreach models that can ensure we understand their businesses better on our underwriting campaigns? There's a whole slew of tools that we are starting to play with and experiment with that I think will continue to deepen our connection to the local community. And that contributes to our overall goal of ensuring that we are building a stronger membership business overall. Now looking at 2026, how are you seeing the AI product roadmap evolve and with just so much of frequent evolution that happens with the technology as well. I wouldn't say that we have an AI product roadmap. I would say we have a product roadmap of which AI is a part. AI c is contributing and enabling us to conceive of and launch potentially God willing successful products that we wouldn't otherwise be able to launch. But I would say we absolutely do not have a specific like AI roadmap. So what do you see it enabling you to do now with the advancements? I mean like all the things that Mark is has talked about, you know, the translation, transcription, the phrase uh David was looking for was yesterday's news tomorrow. That's essentially the the time frame we were talking about before. But also the this idea of unlocking this data that this all of this information relevance. that is, you know, trapped in this unstructured text and audio and video and enabling us to surface that and to to put it in front of people at a time when they're really are looking for information about these kinds of things. We've done this in the past, but we've leveled up our ability to do that to a degree now that I think it's like really exciting. Or I hope it's exciting. Check back in like six months. We'll see how exciting it is. Mark, do you want to add anything to that? I think as we do this work, certainly as I do this work. I am learning about the capabilities of the models that we're working with, the technology products that encapsulate the models as well. I do think there's evolution in the sense that that I came to this handed an agenda. I've been working through that agenda and and adding things to it. But I think that as we've gone through this, we've learned and our expectations and hopes have changed as regards the parts of the larger uh product roadmap that contain AI. We've uncovered some capabilities. We've decided that certain things are maybe not a good use of language model inference, but other applications of AI might be better for them or AI in the the classic sense, really machine learning would be would be better than like Any specific examples? So we're we set out with uh to do content recommendation to improve recirculation using the grant proposal suggests that we do it using a language model technique. And I think there's broad consensus that not only should we not really be doing content recommendation using LM inference, but Building it ourselves is probably not the way forward that there are some great models and great techniques and vendors out there who can do it better for us. at a a lower cost of of staff time. So that that's one example. But also we've been learning things that we've been able to bring in. Well, I'd hate to forjudge certain things. They're they're still on the roadmap. They're it's It's this weird space. It's not quite RD. We expect things to work more than they do in an RD framework, but we also do expect some level of failure and revision. So when those things happen, we will try them, we will assess, and we will see if they're working or not. And if they're not working, we'll kill them. That's just the way it goes. I mean, I would just add to that we've been very flexible in this program in terms of pivoting because the space is moving so fast. You know, we had proposals that came in and then there was a vendor before we even had a fellow that was doing what seemed like a very good job. And the news partner would say, hey, can we shift? Because we're not going to build this thing. It's already sort of out there. So I mean just to expand a little bit on on Aaron's, we want to do demos, not memos. I think that the Space is moving so quickly, the tools around the technology are moving so quickly, the ability to sort of build on top and integrate in interesting different ways. Like MCP is a relatively new phenomenon, but already it's like really becoming clear that it's going to be transformational for a lot of this work we're doing. And so, you know, being able to pivot and having access when it was being developed at OpenAI exclusively, like having access to the folks that were doing that so that the fellows could really get a strong understanding of it. And then, you know, a couple of them just super champions for it. And we've been moving in that direction ever since because we know it makes it really easier to make it modular and sort of bolted on to in different places. So that's That's one piece that I think is super, just super exciting. The other part, if I can sort of just brag as the, you know, parent of this program a little bit. Is we really, you know, again, this was an unintended benefit, but in the beginning we started to see as we were partnering with educational and academic institutions and research institutions in a different way. that there's become this real fertile ground, that there's, you know, a loop where the fellow is participating or or even some of the Microsoft technologists are participating with research and we're We're getting really interesting results. I mean, we talked last podcast about the Philadelphia Inquirer Dewey Project, and we talked about MADAP, but another part of that was really some research that was just breaking that helped inform the best way. to do the fine-tuning and some of the querying to get the results that they that they were after. I think that with so much investment in this sector and so many new vendors popping up all the time, it really is a challenging question to figure out what the applications are that you should be building yourself, especially with only one AI fellow and a product team that's that is no shade to them, but but overburdened with so many other things they want to be doing to drive our our membership and and audience engagement forward. And I think there are basically two approaches. One is to figure out something that you can do really, really well and that is specific enough to your situation that you will remain ahead of whoever's coming at you or too small a use case for whoever is out there getting investment. And so for us, I think that's something like the transcription project. or to a lesser extent the translation project where we have very specific integrations that um it wouldn't be worth anybody's time to develop except for us to do it ourselves. Um and then the other way is to be able to use some of these emerging development workflows and the tools that exist to really spend very little time on any individual application, to really stand it up and and figure out whether it's something that is is worth investing in it at a greater length and and more. And there are countless projects across the newsroom where where we've been able to do that and and that's been really helpful. And I think Aaron, that's It's exactly the big product decision you have to always face, build or buy. How do you think about this right now? Yeah, I think Mark touched on it a little bit. I think, you know, the way we focus on it, you know, our product team is we have two product managers. So the literal minimum number of people to even call it a team. So yeah, we have to be really careful where we deploy resources. So the test is pretty straightforward. You know, if it's something that we and only we can do or if it's utilizing data or content that's ours and only ours and if it requires, you know, access to PII or anything like that, then that that argues in favor of a build versus a buy situation. But you know, it's a balancing act. I have to also bring up what had happened with the Chicago Sun Times back in May of 2025. Unfortunately, that has now become part of the industry examples of what happens with AI slough. That was a third party guide that was published in one of those brands. But I think that's also just a it's every leadership's worst nightmare. So I want to actually just go back in time to that. specific situation that had happened. What was it for you like a leader leading through that? What were the top things, top of mind for you? Sure. So just to give a little context for folks who may not have heard the story, but it definitely was read by a lot of people, I woke up one morning and got a note from our COO Drew Brody, who mentioned there was a viral blue sky post. that showed a book list in an insert in the Chicago Sun-Times that included ten books to read this summer. And of those ten books, I believe seven were completely imaginary. The authors were very real, but the books themselves were completely made up. They were just hallucinations by an AI agent. And at first when I saw this, I just thought it was kind of a funny meme. I didn't think that it was possibly something that could get into print. It was licensed content that we had bought from Hearst Publications, who've been great partners to us for many, many years. well-established, obviously another well-established journalistic organization. And what it turned out to be was that somehow in the creation of this editorial insert that went not just in our paper, but in papers across the country as an added benefit to subscribers. One of their freelance reporters had been using AI to Create stories. That obviously contradicts the policy at Hearst. It contradicts the policy here. And yet there was a number of steps that had failed to protect that story being published. So I think that that morning was definitely a little stressful. It also, while I say that this insert went to another hundred or so papers across the country. We were the one that got to have its name attached to it. So I think the biggest, the biggest disappointment for me is that, you know, we have a room full of very, very talented journalists who really want to show the impact of their work. And yet what shows up on Stephen Colbert is a hallucinated AI list, not the incredible investigation that we did into. you know, consumer pricing in Chicago. It was just sort of the perfect combination of media gossip, of tech fears, of something that, you know, a book list, while it it does have serious impact and is insulting to the authors that have done great work, it's also a little silly. There's a playfulness to it that could work well with comedy shows. So it definitely went very viral. And it was hard. But, you know, I think overall what I recognized about it and what I feel grateful for the team thinking through this with me. was that it was an opportunity for us to really assert how we want to use AI here, how we better set up systems. to protect ourselves against situations like this in the future. And then also how we can participate in a national dialogue and an international dialogue around what we need to do in journalism to ensure the best handling of AI. We started a a process to create a really solid AI policy within our organization. I wrote a s a letter to our audience apologizing for the mistakes that we made and and sort of did a look back on what we will change and how this mistake happened. And then I think that we had a lot of internal conversations that created a space for us to discuss where we think we can go with this. So And All in all, I think it was beneficial as a learning moment. I also think that we have to be aware that, you know, part of journalism, one of the best parts about journalism is the authentic approach to correcting our mistakes. and learning from our mistakes and moving forward. And so we need to do that with our technology process just as much as we need to do with our journalism. I'd love to hear if you have any tips For other leaders who are dealing with these kinds of things, and we tend to keep seeing some sort of issues sometimes happening as you're rolling out new products or anything related to AI. having been through that experience yourself, any lessons that you've learned to share about that? Sure. I think that there's a few things. I think one is that one of the both the opportunities that AR presents to us is better surfacing our humanity and better surfacing our authenticity. And a lot of times I think there's a tendency, especially in leadership roles, to be a little bit more buttoned up and not admit to mistakes or or to not to be careful about how you how transparent you are with your audience. And I think that this is a moment for us as leaders to reconsider that and to say we need to admit that we're humans and that we err and that there is going to be a learning curve for us just as much as there is for anyone else. And I do think people respond to that. I think people want to hear the authentic human experience, both of the journalist on the on the ground and the CEO stuck behind, is stuck in the office, um, reading too many memos. So I think that that, you know, what my advice is is for us to sort of be more comfortable with being human, to talk about the transparent process of how we make our journalism and what we expect from our journalists and also when we haven't set up the right systems to create the best environment to ensure the right advice for our audience. You know, I also think that there was an opportunity for us to say this is the limitation of AI, and it's good to be in that critical space of not being afraid of working with AI, but also recognizing that this is still a very new technology that we're just learning. to navigate and use. And I just want to end with one final question I love asking people and just hearing about is how are you using AI in your personal life thing, Aaron? I use it every day. I use it in various ways, sometimes just for fun, just to see what what's possible, but I'll tell you it's really handy in many ways for coding, for prototyping. That's another way I use it quite a lot. It's also super useful for like right now we're going through a whole process of assessing technology platforms and different vendors, and that can actually it can be difficult to kind of compare. feature sets and what this vendor does and what they offer and how robust is the API, things like that. Actually AI is pretty good helping kind of like compare and contrast and things like that. So I use it a lot of different ways. And Melissa, I'd love to hear how do you use AI as a leader beyond the newsroom? I feel really bad. I feel like I'm not gonna I don't really use it that much. I do experiment with it a little bit. I use it mostly in organizing events and parties. So I think it's a very good tool when you have questions about what do you do with 10 five-year-olds And I need to entertain them for two hours without a lot of fighting for a five-year-old birthday party in Chicago in the winter. So I use it basically as like a heightened search engine, but otherwise I don't really use it very often. I'm I know I should. I'm embarrassed. I'm looking at Mark right now and uh you know, I'm playing with it a little bit more in like my personal life before I introduce it to my business life because I don't really I don't want to get too involved with it in a business sense until there's some clear ways to introduce it to my business life. So yeah, I just I toy with it on the edges. This makes me feel very old. I'm not embracing new technology. May I cut in there? Mark actually is gonna make fun of me. Go ahead, Ma. I'm I'm actually not gonna make fun of you, Melissa. I came to this job as really an AI skeptic and I think I still maintain a skeptical mindset. I don't use AI tools in at least the the the popular sense. in my personal life at all, use it extensively for writing code for work and in the ways that it's integrated into our workflow processes and in the ways that it can help our our journalists and and wider business. But you know, as soon as I get home, I'm like, I I don't deal with this anymore. Yeah. Close the computer and we're done. Yeah. I appreciate that. Mark's Mark's making me feel better. So yeah, that's basic I use it for planning purposes, but other than that, not in any big way. But birthday parties, that's a a great way to help you. It's great at helping you plan out things, complicated logistics. For five year olds. Well, I'll be checking back in six months, as Aaron was saying. And I'd love to see how all these projects have evolved and especially with all of the new developments that we are already starting to see OpenAI apps, MCPs, agents, what does that look like and what does that mean? And how with all of these insights and close collaboration that you'll have with OpenAI and Microsoft, how that helps Chicago public media, what does that look like and what does public media value evolve in this AI media ecosystem? So thank you all for joining me on Newsroom Robots. Yeah, thanks for having us, Nikita. Thank you so much. That was Melissa Bell, Anne Pilofer, Mark Chinofsky, and David Shivers. I'm grateful we got to share David's voice here, and he will be deeply. This episode of Newsroom Robots is supported by the Lentfest Institute for Journalism. To stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast, sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. I'm Nikita Roy, and this