This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me today is Mattia Peretti, a Knight Fellow with the International Center for Journalists. Mattia's current work focuses on exploring innovative solutions. to create sustainable paths forward for journalism. Before his fellowship, Matias served as the manager of Journalism AI A joint initiative between POLIS, the Journalism Think Tank at the London School of Economics, and the Google News Initiative. In today's episode, Matias shares insights from his conversations with European news publishers about how they're experimenting with and adopting AI. We discussed the importance of AI literacy in newsrooms, the difference between AI principles and guidelines, and how news organizations should approach collaborations with tech companies Hi Mattia, welcome to Newsroom Robots. I'm so excited to have you here today. Hi Nikita, it's a honor to be here and I'm really looking forward to this conversation. I listen to your podcast a lot, so it's kind of special to be on this side today today. And it's special to have you as well. You are my fellow ICFJ fellow. We both are fellows right now, night fellows at the International Center for Journalists, focusing a lot of our year on AI. And it's very exciting to have you because we've had a lot of conversations and I've seen the work that you've been doing over the past few months, talking to a lot of news publishers behind the scenes. To understand what their approach to AI has been like, the experiments that they've been doing and how AI has been helping them. And so I'm very interested actually to dive deep into a lot of those conversations get kind of like a bird's view eye on how the industry has been adopting to it. But more than that, also you were formerly the manager at journalism AI over at the London School of Economics. We've had Charlie Beckett previously on the show. And you've been part of that initiative. And so I wanna touch upon all of that as well later in the in the podcast episode today. But I want to get started with understanding the industry right now from all the conversations you've been having with a lot of publishers, a lot of publishers in Europe especially. What have you been seeing in terms of the experiments that how the news industry has been working with AI? Well, there are so many obviously different ways to go about answering this question because I feel like over the Five years that I've been immersed in this topic, I have been seeing you know a lot of different experiments. Of course, generative AI has brought some novelty to that, but in a way not always We are still kind of like trying to figure out things that have been in development for years or in fact in the phase of experimentation, let's say. I feel like especially right now, this moment where we are is a moment that I find particularly interesting at the beginning of 2024. Because it feels like we went through the hype last year with Generative AI and like so many ideas and all being super excited about the various things that OpenAI especially was showing us. That hasn't disappeared, obviously. It's still the hype is still alive and well, but I feel like we have been going over the curve a little bit in terms of like news organizations starting to be more pragmatic, maybe about okay, not just experiments. Let's try out anything, but let's start having a bit more of a strategy and really see what adds value. to us as a newsroom in terms of efficiency and productivity and especially what adds value for readers. You mentioned Europe of course. I'm based in in London and I'm Italian. I've lived across Europe before, so this is my space, let's say, when it comes to AI as well. And I think it's been very interesting to see very different ways, very different approaches and a lot of experiments coming up in various news organizations. I think Europe is interesting because you have the UK. as a market in itself that in some ways is similar to the US, I would say, as a Anglo-Saxon words. The Nordic countries were a lot of interesting experimentation come from, usually in very pragmatic and effective ways and other m other experiments coming up from Germany or France as well, not as much from my own country. I wish that was different, but that's actually the truth. And uh in others as well. And uh we could mention many things, but I feel, you know, I've been I had the opportunity to work a little bit last year, especially with The Guardian and seeing a lot of interesting things that I've been thinking, although not many public facing, let's say, projects yet. But also Schipstead in the Nordics is a biggest uh publisher with a lot to teach us uh as well. Le Monde in France doing agreements and deals with OpenAI for French language. So a lot a lot of different things. But as I was saying, and I feel like this has been a long-winded answer where I'm not even sure I answered your question now that I think about it yet. So we can go back to it. But I really feel it's like interesting this moment where We are beyond, as I was saying, the phase of let's try everything out. We're still trying things, but I see a healthy consolidation a little bit of the thinking into where is the real value. And ideally more value for the users, not just for us. And where are newsrooms currently finding that value? So where are the products that you're seeing newsrooms are focusing AI in the newsroom right now? I'm very intrigued sometimes by how the simplest things are those that can provide value. So I think I You know, the today, not related to Europe, but I was just reading before jumping on the conversation that in the US Yahoo uh news has acquired artifact, the app of the former Instagram funders and I like that. I think it's very smart because I think what Artifact was doing beyond the personalization of content, the possibilities that to uh repackage a piece of information in different formats for different audiences was something that I was really enjoying as a user playing around with and so I know that ChipsD and many others have had quite a success in just introducing uh automated summaries. to their articles, not you know, just asking ChatGPT or whatever to make the summary and then copy pasting it as it is with a lot of editorial work and human in the loop. still involved, but still seeing how that adds a different way potentially to engage with information for users. And yet also seeing that time on page kind of like increases as well. So it's not that we give people a summary and they just read that and ignore the rest of for example the article we create, but it's an entry point kind of to get people interested. And you like, okay, this article is about this? Interesting. Let me read it. Let me find out more about it. So this is definitely like an area they're repackaging. of uh content so to speak. I think it's an area where we are starting to see potential value, although the limitations of large language models are still significant and needs to be considered. And then in general, of course, if we look beyond the generative AI hype and the tools of the last uh, I don't know, what are we now? Sixteen, seventeen, eighteen months or something like that There was a lot of success already in the past few years with other machine learning tools for optimizing paywalls, for example, if there are subscription based organizations. And also in the, you know, nitty-gritty work of investigative journalists, for example, and in finding information in data. old school AI already had a lot to offer in terms of analyzing and finding information in huge data sets. So just a few examples but immediately seeing how across the value chain AI has been helping newsrooms for a while, although again it's not easy sometimes to understand how to make the most of the possibilities. Yeah, I actually want to get into the old school AI part of it because uh we've been talking a lot about generative AI and that's what I think is very accessible for a lot of publishers because of just the way in it, the chat feature and being able to interact with these models pretty easily. But getting to that old school AI, even when you're time at journalism AI This was before generative AI had come onto the scene. Y'all were dealing with a lot of old school AI. When I'm talking about old school AI, like the core of machine learning, deep learning, natural language, processing, all of these old school AI techniques that have led to generative AI. And so where were you seeing the best use cases for all of them in the newsroom? Again, I think it's hard to I've I always found it harder to think about the best use cases because there are so many and we have kind of lost a bit track of what AI is in this type of conversation because as we're saying, you know, as you s we're saying with old school AI, there are a lot of different technologies that we tend to call AI with an umbrella term and it's easy to forget that we all use AI every day. It's behind a lot of the tools we use from personalization algorithms and so on. So it's kind of like hard to find specifically and it feels like there's always the need to unpack a little bit more and understand okay what are the best use cases in this area or with this specific technology among the many that we call AI. What is interesting though, I was just in preparing for uh this conversation, let's say, I was going back to look at some of the projects that even just four years ago. uh some teams that we were working with at uh journalismai were experimenting with and it was striking to see how some of the challenges they were exploring back in twenty twenty. are still things we explore today. I remember the list was including how we might uh use AI to create AI powered summaries to create uh better engagement for users. That was already a thing at the time. We didn't start with ChatGPT. or how AI will put the power of news media archives in the hands of journalists. Again, these are challenges from 2020 and yet it feels like every day now I read articles about this news organization has been exploring this topic or has created a tool to do this. So I don't mean, you know, to be critical and say we haven't made any progress. That's not the point. But it feels interesting in a way how these are not things that we should expect to find the solution for. And the moment we found it, we're done. It feels like with this technology with this type of technologies as they evolve, as our needs evolve and our understanding on their possibilities evolve. we will continue to find there better ways, for example, to make the most of the archive. Four years ago was with a certain type of technologies. Today someone else is trying to do it with the support maybe of ChatGPT. or other generative AI tools and yet yeah I just find it very interesting to see the challenges coming back let's say I found that very interesting because uh Four years ago we're working still on the same problems, but I think we've seen a lot more advancement in the last year compared to what it was four years ago. because the technology was still not at the level at as it is right now. And then going forward, I think that's part of the AI adoption plan really, because technology is going to be improving and changing and we have to be able to iterate quickly just because we may be build a tool right now that ex has GPT 3. 5, the next time something else comes out, we have to be able to adopt and be able to plan accordingly. And that actually brings me to another point I wanted to talk to you about because you've been doing a lot of planning all of these AI trainings for journalism AI and built out all of these curriculums helping news organizations understand AI. So I really wanted to know, how do you advise newsrooms to be able to scale up their AI adoption sustainably? A lot of them are just experimenting with it right now and they're putting together plans to adopt AI, how should they be be able to scale up that the AI adoption plan? That's an interesting interesting question to reflect on, and I don't mean to be provocative, let's say, but I want to think whether scaling up is should be a goal in itself. I think, you know, we tend that's a problem, I believe, in the way we have been approaching AI as an industry. Not, you know, blaming any individual organization, but overall, all of us together, I think we have a tendency to kind of like notice this new shiny thing. Today is AI. Yesterday was virtual reality. The day before was blockchain. Of course AI has a bigger impact of the other technologies I just mentioned. That's that goes without saying. But I think the tendency is to just see a new thing and figure it out, okay, how we can use it. Because you know, we need technology to help us. We're struggling as an industry financially for many other reasons. And I wish that sometimes there was more time spent on a step before thinking, okay, what are we trying to do? What are our goals in the first place? And is AI in this case actually Helping us can help us achieve that goal rather than approaching it immediately as we need to use it. Because it's out there, because it's cool, because it is a powerful technology, then it's a value in itself to use it. And so that brings me to the point of scaling up. I think again adoption is uh should be in my opinion ad hoc type of work. So adoption should not be a value in itself, but again it should be for specific goals and specific projects and an organization reflecting on Okay, how can I make the most of AI for this goal that I have? Actually at the beginning can AI help me at all? Because to be honest, sometimes you just assume that that's the answer and we underestimate the challenges that we will have. Maybe the technology could help us, but the barrier to entry for the resources we have, for the technical capacity we have is so high. that it's gonna be wasted time trying to make it work for us. We just can't get there. Or we believe that a solution is easier than it is and actually limitations of large language models, for example. make it so we should not rely on them as much as we think. So the scale up I think it's more about building capacity to understand where the real opportunities are. and literacy in the newsroom so then when a real opportunity is spotted, then we can make the most of it with working across departments. I just I think it's, you know, let's problematize the idea of scale as a good thing in itself in life overall, but also when it comes to adoption of AI. Yeah, you bring up a right point. I think AI is a very powerful transformational technology that can have a huge impact. But like every technology there there are cases where it's good to use it and where it's not so great to use it. Ye And for to take any problem, for example, and thinking that AI is a solution to that It requires a deep understanding of AI to know whether AI can solve that particular problem and the amount of resources that would be required. And that's kind of like what you were like talking about. And I want to get into the AI literacy part because of all of the efforts that you've been involved with in AI literacy, how should news organizations right now be working on AI literacy within the organization. I know you had done some work at Internews as well regarding this. So could you talk to me more about how newsrooms should be approaching this particular challenge? I think the challenge is right now AI literacy. I completely agree with you and yet these five years also give me the optimism of saying, yes, it's still a challenge, but we have come a long way already. five years ago talking about AI literacy was I don't know talking about how we can get to the moon with our feet or something like that. While today luckily the attention on the topic, the initiatives that exist already. and you have been contributing uh to this as well in many ways are have already made a difference and so the industry is better prepared definitely than it was years ago. I think still, as you say, literacy is important when it comes to going deeper and really understanding what we're saying about going beyond the hype. and seeing what's real, what are the risks. I always think the risks should not be discussed as a you know as a separate thing. So I don't know, we organize a webinar, we have 50 minutes on all the amazing things. And then in the last five minutes we mentioned by the way there are risks as well. That's literally just not the way to go because everyone needs to understand from the very beginning limitations and potential negative implications of using these technologies. Not to discourage it or to all turn into I never know if in English is ludits or ludites, I never know how to pronounce that word, but anyway, one of those. But to really be aware of how we can make the most of it in a responsible in a responsible way. So I am very encouraged by all the efforts I've seen in AI literacy because I think that we can't achieve much without that. It's not that everyone, every single person in a news organization needs to become an expert. in AI. I absolutely do not think that. We went through a few years ago in the journalism industry the time where everyone needed to become a coder and everyone needed to learn to code. I don't believe that's true. Definitely not with AI, but we do need to get that literacy because it's just having an impact on all of us as people in society, not just in journalism. And so we need to combine that everyone's understanding with the deeper expertise of someone in the organization, ideally not a single AI expert, but at the very least a team or a working group of people. So then those experiments that are run can immediately be understood by the newsroom so that the newsroom everyone can feed back and participate in whatever it is that an organization is trying to build. And also to link it to the, you know, it's like a triangle almost. There is the AI literacy, there are the experiments in building products, and then everyone has been rushing to come up with guidelines and principles for generative AI and so on. Neither of these three things can exist and can have success without the other two, in my opinion. I really think the three things are incredibly The related or at least they should be because I'm thinking of you know coming up with guidelines for the use of AI in my news organization. If there is no literacy, those guidelines are going to be empty words. The newsroom will not know how to use those guidelines, what they mean concretely for their work. So the relationship between these three things I me I think should be very close and definitely going in parallel. Unfortunately it's not something that we can take step by step. First, let me focus on this and only then I start with the other step the three things need to develop at the same time to inform each other as well. I love that knowledge of like putting it in a triangle and none of them can work by itself. And that's I think so Incredibly valuable because if you don't have proper AI literacy, you don't know how to write what the AI guidelines should look like, first of all. And even if you just put out AI guidelines, if your journalists don't know what you mean by that, they will still be using it in the wrong way. Or they might not just be using it at all, which is also something that you don't want. So And it's also a bit to avoid, you know, turning the writing of AI guidelines into a just a performative exercise, because everyone has them and we need to show readers that we are responsible about it. So let me just write some empty words to pretend that we do. Then need to be, you know, the meat behind. Absolutely, I really agree with that point. Also, we just want to get into AI literacy a bit. When you were at Internews, you had worked on a lot of AI literacy to help them understand AI for the entire organization. Could you share a bit more about how did you approach that that project there? Yeah, of course. So in Internews not being a news organization in terms of like content creators is a bit different from, you know, thinking about newsrooms in general. So the work I was doing there since Internews focuses really on the health of information ecosystems worldwide. And so personally it was a very useful experience for me because it was really then bringing to the next level the idea of understanding potential and risks at the same time. and how to balance them out. For an organization as big as Internews, which is a for your listeners who may not be familiar with that, is a huge media development organization based in the US, but working in I believe more than a hundred countries all over the world across continents. Of course, a lot of the people working on internews, a lot of the teams are very concerned mostly about the negative impact and the implications. that AI bias and discrimination and other elements have on the communities where they work, where they try to support the health of information ecosystems. At the same time, other teams in the same organization try to build tool to support the sustainability of news organizations in these markets across the world and they understand that the AI has the potential to help. So it was an incredibly interesting experience for me to see what it means to try to bring together these two parts of an organization. not for a shouty match between the two, because one is more right than the other, but because both has so much to learn from one another and they need to understand. what the other point of view is. And I think I was us always using the analogies of trying to bring the two parts and kind of like come to the middle. Not to suddenly all be neutral about AI. but to enrich the perspective of the organization on AI with all these data points that were coming from the different projects that Internews is uh is running. So it was a incredibly interesting in exercise in literacy. What we did there was to first of all build like a small community, a channel on Teams that uh Intrenews is using. to talk more about AI, discuss questions, not to me the expert coming in and give answers, of course, to the organization, but rather me only being a coordinator of the huge amount of information and expertise that there is already is inside. And connecting the dots, also getting different case studies from inside the organization to be more familiar to everyone else because when you work with, I don't know, hundreds, if not more than a thousand employees distributed in so many countries as I was saying, obviously sometimes the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing and it's inevitable. So even just bringing that knowledge sharing and facilitating that element, I think it's something that has been super interesting for me and something that all organizations should just spend time doing Interesting. Yeah. I think that's the the biggest challenge also right now I'm seeing across newsrooms is knowledge sharing. There are groups of people working in AI and there are groups who have absolutely no clue that AI is even being used in the newsroom. And the biggest challenge is knowledge sharing. And so it seems through your time and and during your time at Intro News, what you focused on was that knowledge sharing aspect by bringing together people on a channel on Microsoft Teams to help them understand and ask questions about AI and just like a collaborative space for them to talk and discuss AI. Exactly. And taking that, you know, not as the solution in itself, but like the I also want to touch upon the next point in your triangle, which is about AI policy guidelines because I know you've been doing work over there as well helping news organizations understand their AI policy and write a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a that. So kind of just briefly if you could just help me understand what are the key things you think news organizations need to be keeping in mind when writing these AI policy guidelines. That's an interesting one. So I I got the opportunity to do this work uh last spring, about one year ago with uh with The Guardian here in the UK. So The Guardian published, I believe, in June of last year their Generative AI uh principles, which can still be found online. And I was working closely with uh Chris Moran, who is the head of editorial innovation, I think is his fancy title. Someone who should absolutely be on your podcast, by the way, if he hasn't been interviewed yet. So we'll make that connection happen. And uh Chris was already kind of like at the time coordinating an internal working group with people from different departments thinking about generative AI doing as I was saying, a lot of literacy work inside with a lot of training that everyone in the organization could follow to understand more. It was the But the beginning of the hype when we're talking about one year ago, understanding more what was happening, what were the immediate risks and the mistakes not to do from an editorial perspective. And then again using this working group to start thinking about okay how do we position ourselves? And I think, you know, it was a small collaboration on my side. I worked with them for less than a month. And even in that month, I think we went through at the very least. three iterations of what those principles should look like. And if you find them online right now, that's what they're called, first of all. They're principles and not guidelines. And what we ended up doing in the final product that I'm still proud of and I think it was the way to go was to divide who are these principles for. And so the guardian principles for Generative AI talk about a message in a way for our team. Like these are our principles when it comes to internal implementations. These are our principles for towards our readers. We want to ensure them that we are going to do this in a responsible way, that there are things that we will never do, and that we're gonna put disclaimers to keep them informed. about our use of AI technologies. This conversation about AI transparency is also a super interesting one that I can park there and we can go back to it. But then the third level was also at a higher up for society and the rest of the industry as well. And that comes with all the legal implications of using certain data rather than others and so on. So It was a very uh important learning experience for me to put together those guidelines with uh with the Guardian team and really led me to the idea that principles are more effective than guidelines per se for a number of reasons. A The technologies are evolving so fast that guidelines that are too prescriptive, they get old within a month. And they need to be updated all the time. So principles instead are true and closer to your value and they can inform the guidelines that you may put in place, but they're necessary before. the guidelines if you decide to get there. But also because I feel and this is my personal point of view, that the risk with putting to strict guidelines is to communicate in to your team that you don't trust them to know how to do the right thing. To really send the message then we as the management team or this AI working group, we are really afraid that you're gonna Mess it up. I was saying something else, but I'm not sure if I can swear on this podcast. So that you're gonna mess it up. And so these are the guidelines, these are the things you can do and the things you can't do. I think inevitably there are gonna be some mistakes. As we try to understand something like this, what is important is that our principles are clear so that the most egregious mistakes we can avoid them together because we understand that is just the wrong thing to do. Not because, you know, I'm the prescriptive parent telling you as a kid, don't do that. It really clarifies what you're saying in terms of like principles and guidelines. And I really like that approach because Principles are like the why behind we do something and guidelines are the how. And I think the how of how are we going to use AI is going to change a lot. And it's changed a lot, I would say, in the past one year, and we've seen people updating their guidelines because the technology is changing and they're like, oh yeah, now maybe we could use AI to help write AI generated summaries. And it is to the level hallucinations have decreased. Hallucinations are probably gonna go away in the next few years and AI is reliable now. But like the why of why are we using AI? The principles need to always determine that and I think I really like the approach in which you've put it together and there's a huge difference between principles and guidelines there. And I think you nailed it with talking with the difference between the why and the how. I feel like in all conversations that I have about journalism I tend to go back whether AI is involved or not to us spending a bit more time asking ourselves why we do certain things, why we operate in a certain way rather than another. I think We could gain a lot as an industry, as practitioners, by spending a little bit more time on the why of things before rushing to how we make this happen, how we implement this technology. Also in addition to that, something that I'm quite curious to understand from your perspective, talking to a lot of different publishers, how should we be approaching this moment in time with collaborating with tech companies, for example? The big question is like, do we sign deals with them? We don't sign real deals with them, we go and sue them instead, we block access to all of our training data. That's also like this big question. So I'm wondering when when you're having all these conversations with people, how are they approaching this particular topic? This is uh tricky and I think, you know Fir first of all, uh I think it's important just to answer this question to start by acknowledging that all the work I've done at Journalism AI, so for the four years I was part of the team that was funded by the Google News Initiative Google News Initiative was funding even work I was doing before joining Journalism AI. So of course I have to put that disclaimer in terms of my relationship with Google for for many years. And Microsoft is funding my current work at the Craig Newmark. Graduate School of Journalism, but I feel like they are part of funding a lot of the journalism work that is going on with tech right now. Yeah. I think the relationship with tech companies is honestly very, very tricky. And they've been uh uh you know adapting and updating my vision and my point of view on this over over the years because I understand the arguments on all sides to be honest and I find it harder to take a position myself because Inevitably i there are players we need to interface ourselves with. There are opportunities that come from there. monetary and not only in terms of you know tools they can create and provide. I think again the why we were talking before Maybe is something to spend a bit more time on because I I I hate that it looks like in the current time we are with AI It has become almost like a shouting match between the right thing to do is to partner with them and take their money or no no no the right thing to do is to completely be detached by them because they are evil. I understand both sides and yet again I don't think you know the truth is on either side. I think we gotta be somewhere in between. And especially I think it's just very, very important that we're not naive about what our their goals. At the end of the day is these are for profit organizations. Their mission is profit. The mission is not the mission that we have as journalists. And so in any partnership, in any collaboration, it's just important to not be naive about that. And I I hope I'm saying something that it's not necessary to say. But sometimes it feels like it is. So I am bringing it to the to the table. Because uh yeah, it's uh it's complicated. As you can see, I'm even finding it hard to formulate a coherent answer as I try to reply. Because I do think it's very it's very difficult. As we know, some organizations have decided to, for example, take OpenAI money, partner with them, and because Let's see what benefit they gain from it. I hope they benefit from it. I have no interest in seeing either side failing, but I also completely understand and I guess as a person in society, not as uh you know someone working in journalism, I think tech companies and what they're doing with AI development and so on. is a net negative if that exists for society as a whole. So it doesn't mean creating building a wall between us and them, as I was saying, but more and more I think I'm going in that in that direction. I think you know, they should just pay to have access to the data that is allowing all of their fancy tools to function. Yes, as a matter of principle, but also because they can. These tech companies are the richest organizations and companies on the planet. So it's not that, oh my god, if we don't pay you for our con for your content, we will just fail. That's Just not the case. So I think it's just a matter of fairness and this conversation could get very, very philosophical very fast. Yeah, and that's what we are seeing currently. That's a tough question to uh kind of like wrap things up with uh and to understand It's a conversation that's top of mind for a lot of people. Do they block access to tech companies right now? Do they put up that wall or did they join hands and we're seeing that happen with like Axel Springer, Lamont doing that? Licensing deals with AP. And I think if there's I I'd like to think that if there's something that we have learned or that we should have learned as an industry is that we cannot just put ourselves in the position of being hostage in a way. of the relationship that tech companies allow us to have with our readers and audiences and users and so on I feel we need to do much more work in building that relationship and being independent from any tool, from any platform. We have seen it, you know, with tech com the social media, you know, putting down in their priorities news and so not producing it anymore. Or we have seen, you know, over the last ten, fifteen years social media becoming super relevant for a little bit and then disappearing, regulation changing. So it's such a s changing environment where we have no control of, to be honest. that it's really really really important that we take back some control by building a more direct relationship with our users that is not dependent on what platforms and tech companies allow us to do. I think that's the the absolute key answer there, key point that you're making over there, which is let's build that direct relationship with audience. And I think all of the issues that we're having with tech companies right now or with social media, for example, has all been because we have just, I would say, shirked away the responsibility of like building the relationship to them and we don't have that direct relationship with our audience right now That was a very complex subject to kind of break down and wrap things up with. But just kind of like my final last question I wanted to ask you, somebody who's been involved in AI for the past five years, is that just a professional thing or have you been how have you been using it in your I mean I think this is the point where I disappoint or surprise someone by saying that I don't feel like I am using intentionally much. AI in my life. Intentionally. The keyword. Intentionally, exactly. I'm fully aware that I watch videos on YouTube, listen music on Spotify, and AI is doing all the curation for me. So that goes without saying. But I haven't been I I think, you know, there are a couple of things. I'm not an early adopter of new technologies in general. I noticed this of myself. Like it took me many years to get on Facebook when I was a teenager. And all my friends were bullying me with why you're not on Facebook, we're communicating all there. And so I've never been an early adopter with new technologies per se. And also sometimes I just don't see the value necessarily because I am I think And Going again, maybe a little bit philosophical here, but another thing that sometimes I worry about when it comes with uh the adoption on our individual level of AI technologies and generative AI in general. is that we don't spend enough time thinking what is the trade-off. Like we're gaining efficiency, we're doing some things faster. What are we what are we losing? Like I use sometimes, that's I don't know, some I use case I use ChatGPT for helping me brainstorm an idea or start something new, and it is helpful sometimes. I get some useful feedback. But I also worry if I rely too much on it, what muscle in my brain I'm not exercising anymore? And so what capacity do I lose to process information by myself? Like My memory has always been a bit iffy. Since I rely on reminders on my iPhone to be my memory, my memory has clearly become worse. I'm not exercising it. You know, every time I'm so afraid about forgetting things that I need to have a reminder and then therefore I don't remember things. So I like to sometime to think a bit more about what are the trade-offs. that we make by just delegating things that uh our brain has always been doing to an external tool, let's say. But uh yeah That's probably that's probably my answer. I've heard about the trade-off part, but sometimes I wonder if maybe we might be exercising a new maybe creativity skill as well. Getting you to do things that you probably never were able to do before. No, exactly. I mean at the end of the day, again, as we were saying at the beginning, it's not uh about pretending that using AI is a good or a bad thing. It's just about finding your own uh way. I just, you know, I I've been preaching about spending more time on the Y zone. Well, I am spending my long time in the Y before I become a full-fledged adopter of myself in my daily life. That said, search is terrible, so sometimes I do go to perplexity to help me find better information than Google right now offers. Yeah, perplexity is definitely one of my favorite tools at the moment with search But yeah, there you go. I feel like it's the principles that are guiding you, which can help you decide how you want to use which tool. And that's your own personal principles as well. And that's the difference between the the why you're using AI versus the how you're using AI. So I think that was a perfect way to kind of put that all into context is It's it's replicated in your personal life as well. I'm gonna use that line, Nikita. Thank you. That was very humble. Well, Mattia, this has been a lot of fun kind of getting to know a lot more about your time with journalism AI and understand the perspectives that you've been having getting from a lot of different publishers that you've been talking to as well. So I really appreciate you taking the time. Thank you so much for joining me on NewsDroom Robots. Thank you so much for having me and for doing this great work with this podcast that is helping us all stay up to date with all the cool things happening in the space. Thank you, Nikita. That was Matia Preddy, a 2024 Knight Fellow with the International Center for Journalists and the former manager of Journalism AI.