This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Sweden's AI person of the year, Agnes Stenbaum. Agnes leads the inclusion lab and trust initiatives at Shipstead Media, one of the biggest media groups in the Nordic region. What makes her work special is how she brings together young people from underrepresented communities to explore new ways technology can shape the future of news. She's also the co-founder of the Nordic AI Journalism Network, connecting industry experts across the region to promote responsible AI practices. In this episode, Agnes shares how Shipstead Media is prototyping innovative news experiences to reach news outsiders. and how they're experimenting with AI across their newsrooms. Hi Agnes, welcome to Newsroom Robots. Thank you so much for being here today. Thank you for having me. Agnes, you've been one of the people I've been waiting to have a conversation with about AI. You've been one of the pioneers, I would say, in AI in journalism with all of the work that you've been doing at Shipstead. And so I'm really excited to get into a lot of that work and about Shipstead. You But before we get started into all of that, you wear a lot of different hats at Shipstead. And so can you give us an overview for our listeners about what Shipstead is, which I think is one of the most innovative media companies, and how your role at Shipstead covers a lot of these different aspects of work that's going on in AI. Absolutely. So Schivstad Media is a Nordic media group operating the major news destinations in Norway and Sweden. We also run a number of regional and local newspapers in the same markets. We've been around since the 1800s and we've kind of evolved through various innovations and acquisitions that led to us becoming a big ecosystem of digital services, which were actually just recently spun off. So Schipstead was part of a a bigger group on the stock exchange in Oslo, but was just bought in full by the Tilnius Trust. So we are now a dedicated media company uh owned by a trust, the Tinius Trust, working to promote both our brands, but Independent journalism in and beyond the Nordics. My role at Chip said, I've uh had a lot of different roles in the past six years with a company. And now I have one that, as you said, covers quite a lot of different areas. I have a lot of words in my title, but none of them are actually AI, which I think is rare right now. But uh my title is Head of InLab and Trust Initiatives. And what that means is that I, on the one hand, head up a inclusion and innovation unit called IMLab, short for inclusion lab. And I'm sure sure we'll get into what we do later in this conversation. And I also run trust initiatives, meaning that I gather a group of senior leaders from across Shipset to work collectively on issues related to media trust. In addition to my work at Chipstead or as part of my work at Chipstead, I'm also an industrial PhD candidate. So I'm writing a doctoral dissertation on AI and journalism and I have been for the past four years. And as you said, your title does not include AI anywhere, but All of your work just shows how much AI is not something that should be siloed away in the newsroom and it in fact is related to you. trust and prototyping what the news features look like, the news future looks like. And within lab, you are prototyping what news futures look like. with AI, talking about it for news outsiders. Can you talk more about the work that you do specifically at InLab and how did that come about? Absolutely. So I was part of founding IMLAB back in 2021 and I did that coming from a background working with AI product development in Shipset. And At that time, we were doing quite a lot of exciting things, working with AI to, I'd say, enhance the products for people who were already on the inside. We were doing lots of great things for those who were already committed to us and to journalism. But we could see at that time and today as well, an escalating trend of news avoidance and information fragmentation that really worried me. And we could see certain groups in society not connecting to journalism or with journalism, with in our markets around 30% actively choosing to avoid us, to not consume us, often due to low trust and feelings of our product being a negative force in their lives. And I worried and I still worry quite a lot around what that will mean in the long term for this group's democratic participation, especially when you look at the fact That news avoiders are typically people who are already marginalized in society in different ways. If you have a relatively low uh socioeconomic status or capital, that makes you a more likely news avoider, for example. So I was very worried about that trend, but I was at the same time very excited about the fact that we had all of these possible technological tools that we were not exploring for these groups specifically So I wanted to see what would happen if we paired the trend of news avoidance and information fragmentation with the rapid technological growth that we could see, not least within the AI domain. So we set up a team that was dedicated to to doing just that. So we're not seeing tech as an end goal and tech will definitely not solve all the issues related to news avoidance, but we are a dedicated unit exploring How tech could possibly be part of shaping future news products that would cater to these groups that we are not connecting with today. So we do that in lots of different ways at INLAB. We work typically in co-creation processes where we identify groups of We call news outsiders, the people who are on the outside of journalism today. We work together with them to understand current pain points and then uh through speculative design explore what future products, future journalistic products might look like, often powered by technology. to have them engage with us. And how are you seeing AI helping create these new experiences for this particular group? So you can think about it in in different ways. If you start looking at product development, I think AI can be really useful in helping us explore new formats, for example, related to interactivity. But also personalization. So the level or degree of interactivity that we can enable with the help of AI, is of course vastly different from having a human interact with a journalistic audience. So thinking about chatbots or just two-way, two-way streets, so to say, in journalism. Is something that we look quite a lot at. Personalization as well, of course, making content that is individually relevant and engaging. So that's on the product side, but there's also ways of thinking or considering how AI supporting within the newsroom or or helping out in newsroom processes opens up new avenues and time. for news organizations to start working and reporting in new ways, which in the end will also impact the experience of news. So it's both the product and the process that leads to the content that we produce. And at InLab, you also prototype a bunch of different products with these groups. And one thing that I had seen that you've spoken about previously that caught my attention was the new skull Clinic, which was acting as this AI-driven news therapist that's coaching users through news consumption. Can you talk more about and explain how that works? How are you thinking about these sort of new products that you're co-creating with these groups? Absolutely. So the news clinic was to start with, it's a speculative idea, so it's not an actual product, but it's a concept developed by a group of youth coming from a project called the News Changemaker program that we ran a few years ago. So we had 10 15-year-olds working with us for 10 weeks. uh coming from a troubled area outside of Stockholm. And they came in through a paid part-time job to work with us in reimagining what news could look like as a product. And Part of that program was identifying current pain points, just like we always do. And as mentioned, one of the key pain points that this group experienced was that they feel like consuming the news gives them anxiety. They feel stressed out, they feel sad, angry, often connecting it to issues like racism or prejudice around minority groups. And they felt like We as media organizations, but also as kind of producers of journalistic products, have a responsibility to help them deal with the negative effects or the negative emotions that our product creates for them. So what they wanted to see Was a feature built into a news product called the News Clinic. And that is a AI-driven news therapist. Essentially self-designed AI avatar that coaches or guides you through news consumption and helps you deal with any potential negative emotion that arises as you consume. And this is a concept that we've talked a lot about internally after this programme, because I think it puts the spotlight on issues where people working in journalism and young audiences who are disconnected from journalism have very different opinions. So people within journalism will say that's not our job. We are not responsible for what our journalism makes you feel. While the kids will say, your product makes us feel like shit, so we won't consume it. So I think a speculative scenario like this Which builds on very real technical capabilities. We could build this if we wanted to. I think that is important to bring to the newsroom to start talking about How we deal with that discrepancy, how we deal with the fact that we are viewing our responsibility very differently from the audience group that we want to reach. And also it's the part of creating an avatar and having that relationship with AI. We're seeing a lot of apps that are doing that, but then bringing that into the news ecosystem where We have a lot of emphasis on the trust and the relationship with journalists, and then you're bringing about an AI avatar coaching you through all of that. How do you see the complexities between Using that technology, it's still a concept, but there are a lot of possibilities that's possible by using these sort of like AI avatars. Where do you see we can maybe harness that technology? Is there a place like that for it in journalism? Yeah, and I mean the idea of AI avatars and specifically self-designed avatars, that also connects back to the point that I was making about interactivity. And it's a scary idea allowing users to co-create their product, right? I think step one that's that a lot of news organizations are considering right now is whether we should deploy AI avatars at all or chatbots and what they should look like, etc. But taking that one step forward forward, could we open up for our users to co-create what our anchors or what our germ lists look like. So I definitely think that there is a place for these kind of interactive features. And I do think it's interesting to at least consider allowing users to be part of shaping their own delivery, so to speak, shaping their own avatar or shaping their own news concierge, which is another idea that's come up in our processes. What does that do? the news concierge. So essentially as an individually adapted news butler that gives you the news when you want it, when, when it might fit you, in a tone of voice that fits you. Nothing really radically new, but just the idea that you could yourself decide who gives you the news and what that I'm holding up brackets, but what that person looks like, sounds like, feels like That is essentially as this media organizations giving up control of the message, right? What we would control in a future like that is the raw information, but not the way that that information in turn reaches audiences. That I'm not as sure of if that's a good thing or not, but uh I do think that the interactivity Could be a way of making journalism more engaging for for younger audiences who are used to having a say. They are used to their voice mattering. in a way that older generations have not been taught. So they have much higher expectations on us and our products to allow them to be part of shaping. Shaping the experience. You're touching on a quite a few key points, like the generational gap and the differences between the two generations and how they are consuming content, their expectations. But also I I want to get into because Shipstead is a large media company. And When you bring about all of these revolutionary ideas and concepts and talking about AI avatars and letting people design the news the way they want to get the news. I'm just wondering internally, there must be also people who are very nervous and unfortunately having also just that backlash towards these kind of concepts. So how do you go about talking about them when you are bringing AI, such a new technology, into an organization that already has its set ways of doing things. So I would say that Chipstead is a great and often luxurious place to be working with AI in media because we have such a strong legacy. of innovating. We have a legacy of doing things that were very uncomfortable at the time, but turned out to be great bets in the future. So we have kind of a muscle memory that allows us to be a bit risky, that I think is a great starting point. But with that said, of course there are people in our organizations as well that are skeptical or scared or at least kind of a bit hesitant towards all of this. And I'd say that uh we've invested quite a lot in the cultural shift that this is gonna mean or that this is. So while on the one hand we've done a lot of trainings on the technical opportunities or product opportunities We have a program called the Shift AI Academy that has enrolled thousands of employees where anyone from product, business, editorial engineering can engage in a track, a specific track of learning designed for them. We've also made sure to make this topic not just one that is about all the opportunities and all the great things that we should be doing, but also have very public conversations about the risks, about the things that people might be concerned about, that we bring those topics up to the surface so that we don't just kind of suppress that and say, no, no, this is all good. We're just gonna steam ahead. But instead We've tried to talk about the risks. We've um created various frameworks for working with the risks, and we've had various forums where people with concerns can lift that and can talk about what they are worried about. Yeah, why they are worried and try to deal with that in a kind of human-to-human way. And with all of those risks, like the potential benefits of AI are huge and you're talking about the risks, one of the big things that people are nervous about is the concern of job displacement in newsrooms. And I'm talking about that in this context because again when you talk about AI avatars the use of those kinds of the news concierge when you're prototyping these kinds of concepts that inevitably affects the people who would be or are currently taking up those roles. So how are you balancing that sort of like technological advancement with that ensuring that human talent still remains central to the journalism. So job loss or job displacement is of course an important and a sensitive topic But I do think that as an industry, we have to lift or we have a responsibility to lift that discussion one or a few levels up. and discuss whether the important thing to protect here or evolve are the individual companies or organizations or number of staffers right now. or the function of journalism and the role that we play in democracies. A certain number of staffers being needed to uphold that function, that's not bound by some natural law. So I think it's very important that we talk about these possibilities and evolutions, always connecting it to the function of journalism and what we want that function to be and achieve. With that said, I truly believe that there will be lots of jobs in journalism in the future, but but some of the traditional tasks and the roles that do those tasks will change. I don't think that head council role radically overnight, but I think that they will transform. Roles will change, just like roles have changed or disappeared even in the past. And what those people who have done other tasks in the in the past will do in the future I'm not so sure, but I'm pretty sure it's going to be connected to what makes human expertise unique compared to to mission functionality. And Shipstead as a company has also been investing so much on upskilling their journalists and so that they are prepared for that technological shift. And that's also one key thing about the media company that is helping, I would say, the newsroom as well. Another thing is you've spoken a lot about the need to think differently about the future of news rather than just like relying on the past in some of your talks that I've seen. And I think that's such an important perspective for us as an industry that often clings to tradition. And so how are you seeing exploring the possible futures of journalism without us just being tied down to traditional models? Yeah, and I mean it's always dangerous to have a successful pass, right? You get comfortable and you think that it's gonna work again and again. But I think that Daring to open up the discussion about journalism to other than journalists could be a starting point. I think a uh a key issue in our industry is that Many of us recognize that we exist to serve the public. That's why we go to work every day. We rarely let the public be part of deciding what we should be or what we should be doing. So I'm not arguing for a deconstruction of professional expertise or authority. Of course, practicing journalism professionals know more about journalism than the average person, who in turn knows more about their work or their expertise than we do. But there is a reason to open up the conversation rather than just saying that how we have worked or what we have been in the past is certainly the way that we should operate in the future. So much in society has changed, looking at trends in, for example, globalization or technological developments. So with that, at least considering that our function, the institution of journalism could change, that shouldn't be a a radical idea. So one way that we try to facilitate conversations about how that institution could change, how we do that at INLAB is that we invite people who are in other ways committed to sustainable development or democracy issues. So typically people who are involved in civic youth organizations or other kind of forums or organizations that are committed to democratic functions in general. And we invite them to work with us in design sprints. So by identifying people who are just like us in journalism, who wants to have thriving institutions that support democracies, we can have discussions about journalism as an institution. without only including journalists and people who right now are that institution to shape the conversation And as I mentioned earlier, sometimes we end up with insights being quite clear that we in journalism and people outside of journalism that we work with have quite different opinions around what we should be, how that institution should work. For example, when it comes to consequence neutrality or us caring about the impact of our work. Yeah, and one of those key insights I think you also talk about, again, that idea of Reimagining news consumption. And from a lot of the work from InLab, you've also mentioned testing out news as music. and what some of the work that you all have done with Afton Vladed, which I find such a creative approach. Can you expand more about like what that initiative was and how your what that means for the future of like news experiences? Yeah, absolutely. So Again, this is a key example of how engaging with youth who want people to consume journalism might lead to a very different type of product than we're used to. So we had a product or a prototype product that we built out last year called News is Music, stemming from an innovation process with used from Outer City Stockholm. And in that project, the key pain point or the insight leading to the ideation was that while A lot of youth want to know about what happens in their local communities or just in the world. They don't think that our format, our way of telling that story, telling them what's happening, is engaging enough. and they are engaged by media formats that are kind of blind zones to to journal to journalists or to uh uh to journalistic products. And one of those formats that a lot of youth, at least in Sweden, but I think across the world, consume a lot and really enjoy is music and specifically rap music and rap music that tells a story about the current current world or current community. So in a product experiment, we used generative AI to convert classical written articles into AI-generated rap songs. And while this was a year ago and things have really developed since then, already then you could say that the quality of that song or that music that we generated was quite good. It was definitely something that you could listen to on your way to work. So we had short rap songs, again fully AI generated. where you had a summary of the article, but in a way, in a format that was much more engaging. And it's funny because even though I'm not the target group for a product like that, I'm slightly older than these 15-year-olds that ideated it. I really connected to the story in a different way when it came as music because I'm a human being and human beings have always told stories through music. We tell our or we share kind of educational songs with our babies and we sit by the fire and tell cultural stories through music. So why couldn't we tell news stories through music? I remember word by word every every article that we did last year. because it was music and I remember music, but I couldn't tell you what I listened to on my lunch podcast today. So I think even though that product it's not live right now, largely due to a lot of legal issues with generative AI and who holds the copyright to the original music that led to the training of the generative model, etc. Lots of big questions to deal with. I think having that prototype and bringing it live to Aftom Lodet was really important to us because that gave us live data from young adults engaging with that service, telling us that they enjoyed the service. And very importantly, that they really found it cool that a traditional newsbrand dared to do something like that I'm personally very happy that Aftomblada dared to do it because there were a lot of open questions, but I I just loved seeing the user feedback with kids saying, cool that you're testing this out. Cool that you seem to want to reach us. So I really enjoy that work. And It led to a lot of meaningful conversations in our organization around not just newsless music, but what other formats there are for us to explore. What if The product that we're giving isn't the article per se, but the information that could be brought to users in lots of different ways in the version, in the format that they enjoy. That is so interesting. And it's when you say it, like we have been as humans getting told stories through music. And so this is also stories that we tell about the world in our journalism. And AI, once we are having more answers to all the legal issues, I think another new format to explore. And the fact that it was ideated by 15-year-olds because you all had that initiative to go and talk to them, that's even more just highlights the importance of the need to talk to people who are outside of the news industry. But also I wanted to understand more about how was that response that you see from people, not just young people, but maybe the your audience already who might be more old older, was their impact in terms of how people were interacting with it? When this product came out. So we we did a targeted test. So we made sure that the people who saw this feature were in the age bracket that we wanted to reach. So we set it from 18 to 30. But still a few older consumers could get access to it or they found a way to access it. And there's nothing in our user feedback suggesting that consuming news as music did anything negative to their attitude towards Afton Bladet or to to the content per se. Their feedback was different. They uh They express more kind of, what is this? And hmm, I wonder how this is made than the young people, but not negative per se. Internally, I'd say that the first reaction when I pitched the idea saying, hey, we have this project with our 15-year-olds, they had a great idea. We want to build it. Would you want to work with us? I'd say that the initial response was always a little bit of almost laughter, like, huh, that's a fun idea, but yeah. But when I brought the first proof of concept showing this is what the technology can actually do, this is how good it is. They, again, in our own organization, a little bit older, They were also really positive. They were stunned by how good it could get. So not just a gimmick, but really a valuable product. So I'd say I think we convinced both our internal and external elders. I think that shows the importance of show, don't just tell. Right? Absolutely. Speaking also of just like more broader the collaboration that happens within Shipstead in your group, can you talk more about like Just how the newsroom is also just thinking about AI and what other impact that AI has been having in the newsroom there. So Schimpstein operates quite a few different newsrooms and They share a lot of common functionalities, but they are also different in terms of culture, target group, etc. But in general, I'd say that There's really a momentum for AI development in our newsrooms right now, and many of the newsrooms have dedicated AI teams. uh calling them AI hubs or AI task force, etc. , with people who have specific responsibilities to help the organization transform using these technologies. And most of the people working within those local teams, they are not engineers, they don't have a background in AI, but they are journalists or UX designers or PMs who are just excited about the opportunities that AI technologies bring. So they work together typically on shorter mandates. So coming back to Afghan law that they've had a year of the AI hub working full-time, stepping out of their other tasks or jobs to go full-time in the AI task or the hub to just start transforming the newsroom. And there's been a lot of great innovations coming from environments like that. So we've had AI functionality built into our CMS, which we share across the brands. We've had AI functionality in that CMS for quite some time and we've been doing AI work within advertising and subscription for years, but with these new local, often editorially kind of rooted AI teams We're seeing a lot more innovation in the editorial process itself and in content production. So for example, we have lots of new features related to content production, so summaries doing AI generated summaries, uh doing chatbots. We had an election chatbot for the EU election. Even within the editorial process itself, we've developed buddy readers, so tools where journalists instead of giving feedback on each other's text, they could get feedback from a custom GDT. So tools like that that are closer to the editorial process, which then again comes from the newsrooms themselves. So we're seeing a lot of that, which makes me very excited, but I think also the newsrooms themselves really excited. And your work as sort of like the innovation team and bringing about these ideas, when you collaborate with these newsrooms, how do you sort of pitch that product and get people interested and excited about the new ways in which AI could be used. So we try to always anchor it in user needs. Not saying you should use this technology because it's new and cool and shiny, but saying here's an audience group that you say that you really want to reach. Here's a problem that they're experiencing, and here's a way that this particular tool can help us solve or meet that problem. That's kind of the general idea, which has worked the best for us in the past. But then in these co-creation processes that I've mentioned, we also try to make sure that the newsroom meets the people behind the ideas. So that whenever we bring in news outsiders, we also bring in the newsroom and facilitate a meeting between these two groups that are today very far away from each other. So we try to make sure that the newsrooms see the people behind the need, the people behind the idea, so that they also feel invested in than exploring what the idea could mean in practice. And with all of these AI work comes a lot of risk and mitigating that risk is a big part of it. And I know you've been leading a lot of the work at SHIPSTID regarding AI risk mitigation. And so you also developed a whole AI risk assessment framework. for Shepsteads. Can you walk us through sort of how that works and how are you assessing risk with all of these AI products that you all create? Yeah, so my job before founding INLAB was to lead responsible AI development at Shipsted. So one of the things that We did was to develop a framework called FAST. FAST is an acronym for fairness, accountability, sustainability, and transparency. And it's a risk assessment framework building on awareness around what the risks in those particular areas are and how you as a product development team can meet those risks. So we built a structure starting with trainings, making sure that that people involved in AI development always knew about these risks, these areas. So kind of starting with awareness and then resources, workshop materials, questions for teams to consider. educational materials, uh like research articles to to explore and uh testing tools to to test their product on, etc. Just a bank of resources for teams to test their own product. So we set out four principles, one for each of the areas, fairness, accountability, sustainability, and transparency. And then we had a bunch of questions where teams could hold themselves to the principal. So they basically quist themselves or they quiz themselves. Are we Currently meeting this principle that we say that we want our AI development to uphold? If not, how might we change so that we uphold the principle of fairness? I think this framework was developed for ships that at large, so when we were still a more diverse ecosystem of services, including marketplaces, financial services, et cetera. Now when we're a media company and specifically within journalism, I think accountability is one of the key risks that we should be focusing on. So really making sure that we can be held accountable for the content that we produce or distribute through AI. The legal frameworks for publishing, those obviously differ or they vary between national contexts, but in our markets there are really tough potential legal consequences for publishers who overstep or do the wrong things. So how do we make sure that publishers can be held accountable, also legally, for AI generated content? And what do we want that to look like? So questions like that are really important for us to consider. And I think it's crucial that we do it now because Right now is when a lot of the decisions around what technical tools we use, how we get oversight in those tools. So I think a lot about how technical oversight is essentially editorial oversight and at the end of the day, accountability. So is it Ethical for us to publish things that are produced in ways that we don't understand if we don't have technical oversight or if we don't have technical expertise That enables us to really understand the process behind production. Can we push that? Can we publish that? I really think that we need to have more discussions around that. And so how do you sort of mitigate that risk that might come across with that? So it's like using generative AI versus using natural language generation. One, you can understand how it might have created that article versus with generative AI. it's neural networks, but you're not sure about how it's creating that final piece of article. And then so does that mean that you are not using generative AI direct to publish as a result because you're not understanding how it works? No, I w I wouldn't say that. So we are publishing materials created through ChatGPT, for example. But I don't think that we or any other publisher right now has a good answer related to accountability in that process. So I guess my answer is that we don't have a structured way of mitigating that potential risk right now, but starting at least. with upskilling the organization to make sure that we have some kind of basic level of technical understanding. So that we're not just using these tools blindly, but that we understand roughly how they work is a very important starting point. So that is something I would urge other newsrooms to also do. the past year I think we've heard this almost kind of rush. People sh people are so rushed to start experimenting and to try the tools. And I think that's good and it's great that more people are working with the tools. But I think it's very important that when we do so, we make sure that we're not just scratching the surface and allowing the big black box to just be a big black box, but that we are curious around more than the very superficial level. So it's fine to just have dip your toes and experimented. But as serious publishers, serious publishing organizations, we need to have the in-house competence to understand more about what goes on under the hood. Exactly. And then as you said, that's also editorial oversight, the same thing as the technical oversight. And I think all of this is all of your work with the future of news and prototyping and understanding how these risks might be playing out in the future as well. How do you see AI really transforming journalism? in the next five or ten years and w what changes are you seeing right now that we should be preparing for? So again, going back to the distinction between what are product features and kind of ways that consuming journalism will change. And what are workflow features, what our process changes, I think the way that journalistic products look and feel will and should change uh through AI, I think we'll see much more interactivity and ways for users to co-shape their news experience. That's something that I think is attractive. I think it's scary for news organizations to give up that power. the power of the story or control of the story. But I'm excited about that future. When it comes to the process, I find it likely that we'll see much more and many more hybrid workflows. So workflows that pair human excellence and mission functionality. This is also what my own research is about and my forthcoming doctoral thesis. So I'm committed to this topic, but I do think that this is what we'll see in terms of workflows. So identifying what machines are good at That's fairly easy. Of course, it changes over time as technology evolves, but we can run tests, we can explore functionality, we develop the features, so we kind of decide. what the tools will be good at. Pinpointing what makes human journalists and journalism unique and so valuable, that might feel easy enough, but I do think that there's room for both Individual and structural reflection around this. My research so far identifies things like empathy, creativity, that we are relatively better than the machines. at doing that. So if you want to prepare for the future right now, I'd say that focusing on how to leverage human expertise in those domains Whether it's when reporting or when ideating news products, that's something that you should be considering. And sort of also just switching ears a bit because You also on top of all of these hats as a researcher and at Schriftsted, you also are the co-founder of the Nordic AI Journalism Network. And that's one of the last things I wanted to get into because collaboration seems so crucial in this space for us in as with limited technical resources and expertise but trying to understand it as an industry. How is the network over there, the Nordic AI Journalism Network, sort of being part of the the future of AI and journalism. Yeah, this hat is a it's a side hat, a side hustle that I sometimes put on. But uh Ulla Sakuson and I. Ulla is the head of um AI over at Swedish Public Broadcasting Radio. We founded this network back in 2020, it's already four years ago. And back then we felt like we were kind of alone in doing AI in journalism specifically in our region. But we felt like there should probably be more of us. There's probably people thinking about these topics somewhere in the Nordics. So we started kind of gathering a group and uh Now that group has grown to, I think we're 450, something like that, in our network now, with people who have either explicit AI journalism roles or who work with AI as part of their product or editorial or strategy roles in a traditional media company in the Nordic region. And that network has for me personally really been a Just such an empowering place to talk about what these tools can and should do and try to Together as a network, as a professional community, try to make sure that as we try to reap the benefits, that we do that in a responsible way. And that really comes back to my previous point around treating journalism as a social democratic institution, if you would. I feel like we're all committed to making sure that we're using these tools. in a way that really safeguards journalism as a function. And that's also why I think people are so generous in sharing, because we're not competing in that. We all want that institution to thrive. So if we can help each other in that work, people seem really eager to share, which is really uplifting, especially in an industry that, at least I've been told, has traditionally been so competitive and very kind of keeping your cards really close to to hand or to heart. When it comes to AI, at least in the Nordic region, my experience is that people are so open to sharing what they're doing, what they're struggling with, and balancing ideas on how to meet those struggles. I've tried to think about why that is, why we're so generous when it comes to AI. but not on other topics because AI is fundamentally connected to business, to all of these competitive topics. But I do think that it's because we all recognize that the tools are kind of irrelevant. the real competitive advantage is our newsroom culture, our organizational ability to transform, to rethink, to innovate. And we can't copy that simply by looking or listening at someone else's presentation. That's work that happens in-house. That's not something you can steal from a network. So I think that also makes AI such a suitable topic for industry discussions, for collaboration. You've put that point beautifully and articulated it so well. I think I think this is definitely you cannot just take a tool and copy that. It won't be able to have the same impact if you're not having the same type of news from culture. And that's what differentiates it. And just talking about the openness and collaboration and sharing that you'll have, I just want to tell listeners because do you do an AI and journalism conference every year? And all of the talks are out on YouTube. So if you want to binge any of that, that's what after the conference happens. I go onto YouTube and I binge all of the talks because again the Nordic region has some of the most innovative AI experiments that they do and they're just so free and just sharing all of that knowledge. So it's an incredible conference. Thank you. Thank you for the free marketing. Yes, please binge our content. We're called the Nordic AI in Nydia Summit, NAMS in short. And We've hosted this conference for the past two years in Copenhagen and we're gonna host it again, we're excited to say. So uh please join us on YouTube, but also join us in person next time we're around. You can follow us on uh LinkedIn to stay tuned on when when the next dates are announced. Awesome. And finally, just to kind of like wrap up our entire conversation, I I want to hear about how AI has been impacting you in your own personal life because you've been deep into it in the newsroom and in your PhD as well in your research that you're doing. How how are you using it in your own personal life So for some reason this tends to surprise people, but I lead a very low tech life. I personally or in my private life, I very rarely use AI when not at the office. So for me, AI is deeply connected to efficiency right now. Creativity also, but but efficiency at work. And when I'm at home in my personal life Efficiency is not a value that is very important to me. There are other things that I focus on. But while at work, AI has made a large impact on my life, of course, both in in the topics that I study and the work that I do at Chipsted. But also individually. I mean I use chat to class daily, most often as a creative balancing board, kind of testing ideas or getting feedback on ideas I'm writing. So At work all the time, at home, but rarely. You need to disconnect from some time to time. I guess, yeah. You can't wear AI hats all the time. Exactly. Well, Agnes, this has been such a thought-provoking conversation and it was just what I expected because of all of the work that you do and the innovation that you're having to bring about these insights today have just been so exciting. And I'm so excited for just what the future projects you're currently working on how that turns out and especially with your work on trust as well. So I'm sure there's gonna be a lot for us. for me is definitely takeaway from today's conversation. So thank you so much for joining me on Newsroom Robots. Thank you so much for having me. I love this conversation. That was Agnes Stenbaum, the head of the InLab and Trust Initiatives at Ships. Instead, stay updated with the Newsroom Robots Podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy, and this is