This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me today is Ole Reismann, the head of AI at Der Spiegel, one of Germany's largest newsrooms. In this episode, Ole shares insights into the wide range of AI projects. underway at Derspiegel from using AI to generate SEO titles and summaries to building a tool that can fact-check articles by extracting claims and searching authoritative sources We discussed the newsroom's approach to carefully testing these new AI capabilities to augment their journalists' work while maintaining high editorial standards and audience trust. Hi Ole! Welcome to Newsroom Robots! I am so curious to hear all about how Dair Spiegel has been experimenting with AI today. Hi Nikita, happy to be here. Okay, so it's very interesting. I've been talking to you a lot about how you have been building so many different different AI tools, but I want us to just start off with like an overview of when you started experimenting with AI and how has that approach been going on so far? I think like personally um I've been in the role for a couple months now. I started in January And Spiegel has been doing stuff um like before I started, obviously. The first thing I was thinking like, maybe the most obvious use cases of genitive AI are not the ones we should go after. Because like first we have to ask ourselves why we would want to use AI and what AI is actually good at. And does it serve our mission and does it align with our values? And I think there are some exciting opportunities for us at Spiegel, but at the same time I understand the critics. And um I was um at a university recently and um I showed them uh the European champion of AI, uh Le Chette from Mistral, and I asked, like, who is Ola Reisman? Because there's this, there's this chat box where you put questions in. And we are used from 20 years of Google. There is a chat box, you put a question in it and it gives you facts. And I asked about myself and it gave I mean, it tried to d give facts and the facts it spit out was it was just it was not completely wrong, but at the same time completely wrong. So it put me in the vicinity of like he's a journalist, he studied politics Which true, but then and history, which false, at a university where I did not study. Uh so it's it's it's wrong, but right But totally wrong. And if you immerse yourself in how these things work, um you get the idea like why is ChatGPT or Mistral, why is this machine spilling out nonsense and and fake news? So I think like many of these AI tools have presented themselves to us ja just like a search engine. And yes, also as a chat interface but as a search engine and then in small print at the bottom it's like well maybe after all maybe this is nonsense maybe you should check it I don't know so Ultimately it's all very clever. These new AI tools have gone through the roof. There's so much excitement going on. So who am I to judge? But at the same time I can't understand the critics who are like, oh well, this is like stochastic parrots and this is all wrong and you should never use AI for something serious. But at the same time, as I said, I'm excited because if you use ChatGPT for just one day and read a few things on the web, one can quickly come to the conclusion If you just make the prompt bigger, if you give the machine context, if you give the machine more data, then it gets exciting. So I think now, over a year after ChatGPT emerged, um people are starting to see like, okay, well, maybe there's something interesting there. Yeah, you brought up a really good point actually that the user experience of ChatGBT is very similar to like a Google search because you can ask it questions and it pops up with an answer. But these tools don't work like a search engine. They don't generate knowledge. All they're doing is generating language. And that's been a distinction that you've been able to understand how is it How can you use a tool like ChatGPD for its language capabilities? And so now once you were able to get to understand that and really figure out what the best use cases are for generative AI How have you with Spiegel been experimenting with generative AI and embedding that within workflows? So it's early stages, no? And it's just the beginning. So Spiegel has been using AI for years. But I'd like to say like the boring kind of AI. So translations, uh transcriptions, spell checking, what have you. And this new kind of AI we're talking about, I think most of the time we mean Genitive AI, these new machines, LLMs. And we are in the process of figuring that out, right? So G One thing that for sure happened is that our SEO department was asking, well, we are checking a hundred fifty articles on any given day for a good SEO headline. Isn't there something AI can do for us? And of course there is something you can do with AI. So in that case we helped our SEO department and our SEO editors free up their time to do something more useful. And now we have SEO titles, which is Not rocket science for sure, but it's like it's a small thing like AI can help the newsroom in automating a routine and freeing up some time. So that's that was nice. And so that was like I think the first use case a lot of people are thinking about, right? The SEO metadata. But how are you building that culture of experimentation within the newsroom How you building AI literacy? Uh uh is uh does everyone have access to tools like ChatGPT? Yes, of course. So one thing H Which I didn't start it personally, but like my colleagues from the AI team and our HR department, we organize basic trainings in ChatGPT and image generating tools such as Mid-Journey and Dolly. This is like a very first building block, and so far more than 870 people have taken part in these basic training sessions and when we announce them they are booked out, so we are offering more and more of them. And then we give them access to a prompt library afterwards. We have access to a tool we built internally to make use of different AI models. So we can use AI securely within data protection, data security guidelines, and then we make use of GGPT, Google models, what have you. So that's one one thing we do. Another thing is where we have a training program where an an editor and uh someone from our documentation department they show useful tools to editors of the newsroom. And when they announce that, oh well, come around next, I don't know, Tuesday, we talk about these sessions are very well sought after and we're doing more and more of them. So that's the first thing we started and then now in mid-June we will have the whole company. take one day off to immerse ourselves in AI. We will talk about all the stuff that we are building in-house, look at the projects. But then we will look at the industry, at the market, we will try out technology and have a discussion about it. Like what's happening out there, what should we be aware of, and what can we actually use for our own journalism. And that's just the beginning. Like later in the year, like we want to do a whole week and uh dive more, g go deeper into all these subject matters. How did you get into building that secure platform? Because a lot of people are having that concern about ChatGPT, these models training on their content and how secure it is. So like if you buy ChatGPT for a team so the enterprise version, they say that they don't train on your model and did you create a platform where you're directly connecting to like Microsoft Azure Gemini's models as well? Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. So I I think there's some open source uh software out there, some platforms. We build our own. It's just like we have enterprise accounts with Microsoft Azure, with uh ChatGPT, with Google. We will make sure that they do not train on the data and especially with Microsoft Azure they tell you uh you can choose to to let the data be stay in Europe which is for some people very important for a company as Spiegel for sure. Exactly, like there are those options of like keeping things secure when you have them directly with Microsoft Azure. And a lot of people are thinking just because of the consumer-free version, Chat GPT is always training on your data, but we also have those options of where models are more safe to use for privacy if you have any privacy concerns. I think it's a little bit it's not funny, but I think in the past uh all the companies uh trained on our data. And we weren't like so aware or so acutely aware that this might be a problem. So I think there is like a a new sense of Well, maybe let's protect our data and maybe let's make sure that these companies they can improve their products, but in the terms of training a large language model, maybe this is not a good way to offer our data for free for someone else. And also coming back to the training component that you have, there's y as you were saying you over 170 people have taken it. And they go through understanding the Chat GPT, Midjourney, Dali, and they have the access to the prompting library at the end. I was also very curious, Midjourney and Dali What were the use cases that you are training them over there? Is it all journalists or more in like the people who are in more in the creative side of the newsroom? Oh, it's both. It's both. It's um creative side of things. It's uh marketing department as well. We are not thinking in these first training sessions, we are not thinking necessarily about use cases. We just want to get people to know the technology. For once they will encounter this stuff out there. They have to know what people are doing. Outside of our company. Sometimes our freelancers will ask questions about AI. Are they allowed to use it? And then we are thinking like How do we want to make use of AI? So we talked even today we had a meeting about how do we go about using generated images and for once in our editorial Operation, we do not want to use photorealistic images because we do not want to make up the truth and we don't want to trick anybody. At the same time, we are very interested in looking at the generation of graphics and illustrations and we think there could be something there. So that's discussions that are ongoing in our company. and we want to educate as many people as possible to be able to be educated and take part in these discussions. So that these decisions do not come necessarily only from the top, but like the whole company talks about this stuff and Because this these things are shifting, no? I think user expectations are shifting. Even now we are seeing that younger audiences Sometimes you have students with projects they are working on. They're coming to us, visiting us in the newsroom, visiting us at the publishing site, and they are presenting us with projects and stuff they are doing. And I think they're sometimes much more comfortable with AI tools, AI usage, cloned voices, avatars where a person not to be ageist here, but a a person my age is more reluctantly like, oh well yes, it's possible, but should we we really make use of it? So I think We have to have these discussions. We want to have as many people take part in this discussion as possible. And I don't think like we are setting strict guidelines now because this stuff is changing all the time. So maybe we have some principles now and then we like have discussions along the way. I love that you're not just focusing on the use cases, but basically just giving them and general understanding and as you said, these technologies are gonna be surrounding us in a way and embedded within different different platforms and apps. And it's so crucial to just have that foundational knowledge of like, what is it? Even if maybe you're not going to be using an image generation tool, what is it capable of? And how can I be able to use it? Because then you are able to understand it and think more critically. about these kinds of uh technologies with that. And sometimes these questions are hard, no? Because like any other day, a software Will have a new button, a new magic button that does something. And maybe you are maybe even you got tricked into using that button, and then this button does something to an image And if it's just a adjustment of the contrast or the brightness, we could say, okay, well, this is something we are comfortable doing. But if you're starting erasing people out of the picture, no, this is a the line must be drawn here, right? But I mean we can't control these software tools, right? So any other day there's a new function popping up and we want to have s as many people as possible like be capable of doing decisions well what to do what not to do and And to be honest, not that much is changing in with AI. It's like the principles that has have guided us before. We do not want to trick people. We do not want to make things up. We are here to report and get a picture as truthful as possible out there. And now with this basic understanding of AI that they have and they have access to tools like ChatGPT, how has it been streamlining tasks within the newsrooms? So I think with GenShift AI, not that much, not yet. I think we are getting there slowly, deliberately. One example was SEO titles, which is not very exciting. Another thing is uh fact-checking. So our again, it's not us uh that's pushing it, not the AI team, but our fact checking department was uh thinking to themselves like maybe we can do a first round of fact checking an article and extract with an AI the locations, places, names of entities and run a first check. And they started out building that. And turns out ChatGPT is not very good at fact-checking, but you can teach it to extract factual statements from sentences, and then you can try To check each factual statement and you can run it against the knowledge of the LLM, which only gets you so far. especially with news and if it's more very specific things that are happening and you want to fact check, then you can run it against a database of your own articles, which is something we are looking into. You can do a web search. Where you have an agent visiting eight websites and try to to fact check one single piece of information. So this is something our colleagues at department um are working on. I I wanna say it's it's Gerrit von Nordheim, it's Alex Thiel, they are the ones running the project, which is exciting and it gives us uh so many opportunities to free the times of our uh fact checking department, to to do more fact checking because if you do a hundred fifty articles a day, even though we have a huge fact checking department, especially for Germany, which excellent colleagues, we can make better use of their precious precious time to check more facts to dive deeper to do the complicated stuff and some of the more mundane stuff actually can be automated and so we run a fact check not to get rid of the fact checking department no no to the contrary so we run the fact checking tool Which is in beta right now and we will hopefully have a up and running version in the next couple of months so everybody can use it at the company. And it only gets you like I don't know twenty, thirty, forty percent there. And The other percent, that's like the stuff humans are really needed for and which is really complicated and where you can't do a web search, like where people have to really dig into it. So this is exciting and I think like this is the stuff we are looking into. So this is the product helping the fact-checking department do their work more efficiently and quicker in a way that again you're using Chat GPT's, I would say, language capabilities of extracting what are all the factual statements to extract that and then sending these AI agents to search the web or checking against a knowledge base to see whether this would be factual or not. And then if it's not factual, kind of that's alerting the fact checker that they have to investigate it even further. Yeah, yeah. We're giving a score. Like we can we can do a score how sure is the model that this fact may be actually true. Okay. And so that's what you have built in because based on what the sources you're seeing and finding from each factual statement that has been pulled up. So you've been experimenting with AI agents already quite a bit. Yeah, b like as I said, if you take the the models, the LLMs by itself, it's it only gets you so far. And I think the more interesting consumer-facing products right now are the ones where agents are actually doing some kind of work. And I think OpenAI will launch something in the next couple of, I don't know, weeks or months. Perplexity already does it. Microsoft with Bing is already doing it. So these kind of machines are get it's getting interesting where they are not only looking into themselves and getting all the trained data out which is like very It's all the biases, it's all the stereotypes, what have you. And that's not very interesting per se. But these machines can actually you can give them task and they can do some tasks for you. And I think at the moment we are seeing the capabilities and some people like call it a better intern, which is very derogatory to interns. I'm I wouldn't use that exact phrase, but it's it's not a colleague that meets you at eye level, but it's um it's uh it's a more it's more of a a first step in in getting you stuff and helping you with stuff So I think at the moment this is like this is a good use of AI. So all of these are like internal facing helping you with operations. Have you been experimenting with audience? facing products. How have you been carefully navigating that? Yeah, well at the moment we are looking at We have like 10 projects going on and there's only one or two that are like outside facing. For one, I think we'll get there eventually. But at the moment we are really in the trust business and if we were to put something out, we want to make sure that Not only a younger audience is happy, but our core audience, which tends to be a little bit older, our paying subscribers, we want to offer them factual information and we really want to make sure that we do not disappoint our readers and that we do not lose trust. Though I think we will have some consumer-facing products out there, not at the moment. We're working on it. What about the context tool? So we have a we have a a colleague, Klaus Hück, he built, I think, in his free time to be honest. Or he started it in his free time as a side project. He built A browser plugin for the Chrome web browser where if you read a Spiegel article, you can select a word or a phrase and it looks into our archive and it gives you some background information. It's a it's an interesting tool because again, we do not ask ChatGPT to explain something to us, but we ask ChatGPT to look into our archives, read some articles, summarize the information of these articles, and get out a paragraph with linked sources. And we're testing this product right now. So we are giving access to this tool to some people in the newsroom and they are checking for quality. Is this something we're comfortable rolling out to maybe the whole of the newsroom? But again, this is a first step and if we want to Do such a thing consumer-facing out there? It depends on how the testing goes and how the development goes. I think it's possible to deploy such a tool right now. But we want to really make sure maybe we're not the first ones doing it. Maybe we don't have to be the first ones doing it. Better do this one right. Because as Spiegel, we do not want to lose trust. And especially at this moment where AI is in the media, there have been some bad examples, not only in the English speaking markets, but in the German market as well. And We do not need to be the first necessarily to do the stupid mistakes. Yeah, and also I think one of the other big features that I keep seeing people use is use generative AI for is summaries. And is that also something that's on the pathway and roadmap that you all are experimenting with? So there's a lot of talk. in the Nordics in Europe about summaries is of the thing and everybody's doing summaries now. We've seen some German publishers trying out summaries and we definitely are looking into it. We are running a test right now, not with Spiegel, but with our sister publication. It's a business publication, the manager magazine, where We put um summaries which are yes generated by ChatGPT but then checked by a human. The human checks the summary, decides, well this is good, good enough. If it's good enough, he's gonna correct it and makes it really good and then decides to publish it. So there's still humans involved and it's a it's it's work. It's it adds on and we are Trying to get a feeling for is this actually useful? Do people actually like it? What does it do to our to the data, to the audience usage data that we can monitor? And We are, I think, at this point not sure how big of an effect it has. But let's see. I have to talk to the colleague. The experiment has been running for some weeks now. Maybe it will show up in our product, uh, maybe not. Not sure yet. And audio is also another big place where people are experimenting with and it has a lot of potential benefits to increase the accessibility of news from text. How has that been So we've been doing text-to-speech for a couple of years now, I think one and a half years. Like you can listen to to every article. This is a first example of AI. But again, when we're talking about genitive AI, um there are newer models which sound a bit more human, a lot better. So we are in the process of trying to upgrade our text to speech, which not easy because our articles tend to be sometimes really long and most of these newer models are actually built for I don't know for speech assistance and s and so on and so forth and for shorter forms of content. So if you if we have a really long article which is 40 minutes or more. You have to come up with some some workarounds and uh we are looking into it. And the other thing with genitive AI There is a company uh in Berlin, our friends at Bosepark, shout out to Soholder and Chris Guse. And we've been building a machine that ingests spiegel articles. And then you apply a business logic logic. Let's say if there is a top news There's breaking news and you can tell the machine fifteen minutes later when we have expanded the article, take the article, make a audio version out of it. which is more written for audio, shorter sentences, and so on and so forth. And let's make a podcast out of it automatically And maybe even translate it into Russian and English and Turkish and what have you. And so this is a machine we've been building and We are gonna show the whole company what we've built. This is a prototype, it's a proof of concept. Still, humans involved when the machine has generated the script, a native speaker has to look through the script and decides is this a good translation, is the summarization good, is this ready for publication, and then has to say, okay, well I approve or I have corrected this piece and I approve. And then the machine again kicks in, does all the other stuff. takes care of the upload and so on and so forth. But this is a proof of concept. I'm not sure this will see the light of the day, but we want to stay on top of the technology technological advancement and show what's possible out there. Because it's certainly possible to do these things, but we wanna we would like to ask ourselves is this something the world read needs right now. And then we're gonna test it, not only with our company, but we have a test audience. And after that we will make an informed decision. Is this something that we are can be proud of. Is this something people really need and want? We go from there. So these are like audio updates that you're trying to play around with and test out that converting articles into m multiple language short podcasts in a way that people can listen to the news. Yeah, exactly. And this is something I think we wouldn't have thought about it because this is in the ages before Genitive AI it was very time consuming. And a lot of processes, a lot of different people involved, and now maybe it's feasible to do such things that weren't feasible before. And I wanna get more into like that testing phase. So a lot of your products right now that you're talking to me about are still in beta. You're still prototyping, getting that proof of concept. Nothing is going out and the whole newsroom is using it as a whole. You're slowly getting them introduced to it. So just talk to me like about that cycle of the journey of like getting those products to production. So we have a lot of ideas and we have to prioritize. There's only so much we can do in any given year. And we really want to lay some foundations to build upon. For one, we have to get our archive in order No, our archive is in order, but we have to do a vector database. Our most important project, I didn't even I didn't talk about it before is this personalization. We really want to do it. We want to build it. We are building it in-house. And to be able to do that, we will have a vector database with our articles. Once we have this database, we can build upon it, and there are so many other things we can imagine afterwards. Which are made possible by this foundation that we are building right now. So our priorities are getting the foundations right, then really looking into what are we offering our readers. What do they really need from us? What do they want from us? And then maybe AI is one part of the answer, but maybe not. And we are as an AI team, we are here to help, to support, and show people like, well, what's possible. how to think about AI and we are offering offering help and for one there is a newsroom. We really want to teach people and help people with investigations. and get to know tools, have ideas, how to make use of genitive AI, not to write articles, but to access huge amounts of data, unstructured data, what have you, apply AI mechanisms, maybe generative AI mechanisms, and producing insights, information and building articles upon that. That's the one thing. The other thing is after there is an article, what can we do? To transform the article, an SEO headline is a transformation, a translation is a transformation, a summary is a transformation. Maybe we have some other ideas that we are working on right now. So this is the one thing we are looking at. So in in terms of the product development and news product development, there is a process which meets regularly. Like there are three cycles in each year. And for this year, the task for every cycle for every we call it circles, but it's units basically, is to to look into like in the processes we are already doing. Can we make use of AI? That's the one thing. And the other thing is we as the AI team are thinking about like, well, which use cases are actually interesting and and what's serving our mission, what's serving our readers. And you brought up a very important point about right now bringing creating that archives of you have to first create a whole vector database, which is basically just to be able to store and efficiently search through such a large collection of database of articles, one of the main things for generative AI is creating that vector database so that you can do quick sorters and pull out similar content for articles and then build on top of that. And how have you been thinking about that? the data infrastructure really in multiple different the archives you have it's Spiegel is such a large newsroom and has such a huge archive. What's really the it feels like the cost of even running that is is quite would be adding up over time. How have you been like thinking about that So to be honest, I don't think this is that big of a deal. For us it's it's certainly doable. And for us it's important. It's it serves our core mission. But if we are thinking of user-facing products, I think that's when it gets really expensive, especially with the current models, even though they're getting cheaper and cheaper by the month. We really have to look into like if we were to deploy a user-facing product and potentially millions of people make use of these tools, that's for one costly And then it's a question of, I mean, this compute, it doesn't come from nowhere, it costs energy, and is this a good use of energy right now. So we we will do something. We will look into which LLM to use, which technology stack to use. Maybe you can build something with a smaller model which is more not only cost effective, which sure, but also again and more energy efficient, which is of concern. Yeah, because every time you are like putting in a request to any of these models that is using compute power and it is all adding up. And so I like that sustainability factor that you're also looking into is this something that we need to be spending energy on right now as well. I mean if the use case is right, I I think we're happy to try it and to do something, but maybe not just as a gimmick. Exactly. Like a substantial use case that is actually going to be effective. And that also brings into makes me think about that every kind of like generative AI product also needs to have some sort of like a business ad and a business model because of the cost, at least at this point in time that you're talking about, that can add up over time. I think it's a really interesting moment in time for readers or for users, because this new technology makes more things possible that weren't possible before in terms of personalization and I as a user have a higher degree of autonomy in choosing What piece of content do I want to consume? In what format? Do I want to read an article? Do I want to listen to a podcast? Do I want to Read through 15 newsletters in like one summary. There's so much things going on, and some of these functions are really interesting and are serving me as a reader. And then a news organization has to really look into what what can we use to better serve our audience. And do we want to cede some of these functions to browsers or operating systems or new platforms? Or do we want to offer some of these new technology ourselves? And this is like it's the old question that has been there before, but in the age of AI I think it's new again. So I was involved four years ago. It was the smart speaker. came along and there were so many this was a bit of a hype. There were studies done in Germany that said like oh well so many million smart speakers are out there and a year later it turned out uh the only thing people are actually doing is listening to music and getting weather information. And I think it has to do with these machines were really not that sophisticated. You try to talk Siri or Alexa or what have you into doing something and most of the time these machines just didn't get it. And we built an interface a four years ago to access uh spiegel content via voice. And it really I mean some people use it but it it didn't take off, right? But now, four years later, maybe we will have a second coming of the smart speaker and suddenly these machines understand us much better and maybe people are much more likely to talk to these machines and make use of these technology now that they are actually. capable of understanding even if they get like fifty percent right that's like ninety percent more than before. So I think um we are at a new point where some of the things we thought were possible four years ago, maybe they're they are becoming more of a real reality in the next couple of months or years. That was a bit too early. The technology wasn't there yet. And now the technology is caught up to create those experiences, right? And so in personalization, it seems like you're not just talking about giving a user an article that they're more likely to read and like personalize the stories. It's even beyond that personalizing their user experience mainly and how that engagement happens. So if they are more interested in summaries showing them those kinds of summaries. That's that's how you're thinking about the personalization of news? So I think we have to be wildly experimenting on this technology and on on this stuff then we have to carefully look like what serves our mission, what are our users and readers expecting of us and what is actually useful. So when we start with personalization I hope later this year it will not be a revolution for people that are used to YouTube and Spotify and all the other platforms that have algorithms that somehow have a personalized user experience. We will start very small, very deliberately looking at how people reacting to it, do they make use of it? Are they feeling comfortable with it? And then we go from there. We have many ideas, but we will lay the technical foundations now. And once They are in place. It's gonna be an interesting time. And there's so many things that you all are working on right now, but I'm so curious to know what's like. an upcoming AI project or initiative at Spiegel that you are most excited about? Okay. My problem is I'm excited about all of them. And like we have this list of priorities. There are certainly some bigger projects where we think like the impact is is really really important. There's a project and I'm I'm not sure if I'm at liberty to to talk much about it. I I can't r review that much, but we have a gender report where we are testing the automatic reporting to see how how many women, how many men are mentioned in any given article. And we measure it. Not on an article basis or on a daily basis, but like we can do reports for each department each month. And I think this is no secret. On average, there are many more men that um are appearing in our articles. And now We, or but especially Susanne Weingarten and uh Helene Hettele, they are the ones running the project, looking um into this data and talking to departments and like, well. What can we actually do to increase this number? And I think this is I hope I'm not reviewing too much. This is this is interesting. This is an interesting case of again it's not user facing AI, it's not a gimmicky tool, but this could really make a difference in how we see the world, how we do our reporting, and to have a more equal reporting And so you're you're using AI to help with the identifying the gender. Exactly, exactly. We do the extraction. This is actually this is uh GPT. We extract uh the names out of the articles. No, I'm not getting into any more details because this is up to to the colleagues. I hope they will present um this project in in autumn um to a wider audience, but I'm really excited about it. AI is helping you pull out all of the different names and identify maybe what gender they are and then give you those memories of like how. how the distribution is of sources. And I think it's really beautiful because there's so much talk about, oh well, these AI LLMs, they are biased. And now it's actually an LLM that helping us discover our biases. I think that's a quite beautiful. You find it performs accurately or does that require a lot of then analysis and s to see if it is in corrections. So to be honest, when we try to add upon it with like Can we guess? Sometimes it's mentioned, sometimes we can take a guess on at the age of our of the people mentioned in the articles. I think there we go into a That's maybe maybe that's not working out. But to extract names and guessing gender, it's not gonna be a hundred percent correct and I'm very sorry, but it gives you a tendency. And if the numbers are as our numbers are, we are really looking at numbers that are we are really comfortable in in taking these numbers for granted. And so it's better than having nothing, because you at least have some sort of like a direction to know if it's up or down. Oh for sure. And I think there have been so many studies being done, right? Where oh what are these studies? Um there are like four people in the room and one is a woman then all the men will say, well This group was uh equal uh distributed. And so uh we have some some people have a gut feeling that maybe we are doing all right or maybe we're doing better than a year before, but these numbers actually show you where you stand and So they they might not be a hundred percent accurate, but they have crunched the numbers for the previous years. So we have the data from a couple of years now, and we can look at tendencies, we can look at departments, so that's interesting And I'm very curious to know about how is the German news industry the news industry in Germany really collaborating and working on AI together. So I mean we all meet at conferences for sure. We have some organizations set up where we meet and discuss and sometimes we even share resources. So there's uh two examples and I think you're getting at the one with the archive where We run a big archive of press articles and we are running it together with uh Axel Springer, and there are other clients in the German market. So that's a form of collaboration. There are other examples where when we build the tool to make use of ChatGPT, there is another publishing house that's working with us on that piece of software. I think most people are likely to share some insights if you talk to them because technology is evolving all the time. Product development is still hard, especially for smaller companies. And we are one of the major publishing houses in Germany. Still, we are a small, mid-sized company. So doing tech is hard for us. And for the others as well. And I think collaborating on projects, sharing knowledge, it's it's very important because otherwise we we couldn't keep up. Yeah, and I think you brought up a really good point that even being s a major publishing company in Germany, the tech is still an issue and it's hard for you. And so that's why you need that collaboration. And I want to get into understanding more about that Axel Springer archive. So are you building like a news archive for Germany com collaborating with Spiegel? and Springer's archive having that as one and what's kind of like the purpose of doing that? So it's open to anyone who who wants to collaborate and subscribe and and share the cost. And we are running a database which basically includes every article ever published since the beginning of the of the Federal Republic. And now we are looking um how like can we make use of Genitive AI to access uh all the articles in a better way. So so far it's a semantic search, which is nice. And so far we try to extract names and entities. with machine learning, which is nice. But now can we do stuff with GenTIF AI? Can we actually chat with our press database? That's certainly something we're we're looking into. And again, there there is a prototype. Again, there is a prototype. But again, like we we are really thinking hard about like how should it actually work? How should it perform? So this is basically for you all to create like a database of news that is all German with two of the major publishing houses, Spiegel and Stringer, putting their news together and all of you are able to collaborate and do generative AI. experiments with it. Yeah, exactly. And f uh we have other customers as well. So you you could you could join if you if you'd like to. So when you say customers you mean to say this is also like a product that is being sold to other German newsrooms to like use the training data? Yes. Okay. When you say customers, is this like product that is the sole tool for the US? It's it's for research. So it's basically it's it's a press archive of all all articles published in Germany ever. So um journalists use it for research. So journalists can use it for research and newsrooms can use that to use the news as training data or to be able to build generative AI products on top of that. No, no, not no. It's a press database. They exit this for for research to write articles. And what we are looking into is can we make use of Genjif AI so they can not only do search queries but chat with these archive. So that's an idea. Okay. And so how are you thinking of the generative AI component to that? Being able to translate those queries that people are doing and giving them some like understanding with that press database how they can use AI. Could you explain that whole process of what the press archive is? Yeah, I I think it's much more boring. So there's a there's a press database. with all the articles that have been written in Germany since the war. And you can become a customer and use the archive. Chat with the archive. At the moment it's not a natural language chat but it's search queries, it's a semantic search and newsrooms make use of this database. Editors research for their own work, for their own articles in this database And this is a product we are running together with Axel Springer. And there are other customers in Germany as well. Other newsrooms are able to join. If they want to subscribe to this service, we are happy to talk. And as this is a database and you can do a semantic search, the next iteration of this product would be, let's do search with genitive AI on this article. So you can chat with this archive. This is not a consumer-facing product. It's a professional service for for newsrooms and publishing houses. Okay, interesting. So this is like an example of the collaboration that's going on currently in the German news industry. And I think it's so exciting to hear about all of the different ways in which you're talking about all of the prototypes and proof of concept that you've been working on in Spiegel. But one thing I want to kind of like wrap up to here with Is how have you been experimenting with AI in your own personal life? I think I I shouldn't tell this, but I got my blood work done. And the first thing my my doctor was like, okay, well here's your blood work, it's fine. And later I uploaded a picture and sent it to JetGPT. Which I don't know. I wouldn't necessarily do it with my DNA sequencing or with confidential research, but I uploaded my own blood work and asked and I got a comprehensive assessment with explanations. And when I catch up with my doctor later, uh, she told me basically the same the same things. And I'm only telling this because she retired and I can't hurt her professional feelings now. So Chad GPT was able to give you that medical advice and also shows you maybe like how the healthcare industry is also thinking about generative AI and where the applications might be even beyond there. I was quite curious because in your personal life we you're part of the AI journalism lab and we had asked people when people were applying for that how they've used AI. You would also you had mentioned in your application that you used all the Newsroom Robots podcast episodes, uploaded them into Google Notebook LM and Helped got that to help you with creating your epis creating your application there. So first we should have disclosed this now that I'm thinking of. You are my teacher and I'm a student. Yeah. And you're totally right. I applied for this AI journalism lab at CUNY, uh, where we have like twenty-five great colleagues from all over the world. uh working on on AI projects. And yeah, my thinking was um if I apply with a project, I could ask what you and all the other fabulous guests of the podcast would think about my proposal. So I did some transcripts. And that's basically so my understanding is this is some kind of rag. You have dozens of transcripts in text. You put it in a database and then there's one of these services. There are many of them, but one of them is Google LM. We talked about the vector database before. So I think this is basically it, no? You upload the text, it gets vectorized into the embeddings into a database, and then you You ask questions and the LLM does a semantic search and looks through all the transcripts, finds passages Takes these chunks of text, um, see the context and come up with a with a new answer with and can give you guidance. And I did it and you seem to like it. Um so It kind of worked. Yeah, I I would say that was one of the most innovative uses of like most people using Chat GPT, but here you go, you put it into a new tool. I mean, Google Notebook LM which takes in lots of different transcripts and then you can like lots of different texts and then you can chat with it. And you didn't get it to write your application. As you were saying, you got it to give you insights on what perspective from the conversations on the podcast, what perspectives would we have about that particular project that you were planning on or working on. So it was very interesting. This is again like I would never have thought that anybody would use the podcast transcripts to get an idea of what my perspective would be on a particular particular project. But there you go. You had like so many episodes to understand how I would be thinking about AI. I think like there's like two for me that were two important lessons that that I that I got out of this. The one lesson is there is so much content out there. And maybe Gentiv AI can help us make better use of our content of our archives and come up with new ways of resurfacing content. So this is interesting for me. The other thing again was I do not trust the LLM and the probability model of well this might be something the whole no. I'm gonna put some authoritative sources in there, and that's your podcast for sure, and ask about what did the experts actually say. And I think it gives you a much more interesting, nuanced answer compared to the LLM looks into itself and spills out some hallucinations and maybe some generalizations and some things that are somehow right, not quite wrong, but maybe mundane or bland. So again, these tools and machines I think are very interesting, but don't just start chatting away and and taking it for granted. I I really like those two lessons that you kind of spoke about from there. Those two insights I think are so crucial that you put grounded it in a an authoritative source. rather than just using the knowledge off the LLM to write something. And yeah, I think that was a very fantastic case. And I mean at the AI Journalism Lab I feel like it's a collaborative learning journey where I'm learning and everyone else is learning along together and it's a community of AI practitioners working on building what the future of news would look like in AI. And so Very excited to kind of actually delve deeper today into just specifically what your job and AI work has been doing at Spiegel. And it's been so exciting to have you. Thank you for joining me, Ole. Thanks for having me. That was Ole Reismann, the Director of AI at Dir Spiegel. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast Is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.