This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me today is Karan Sperk, a global investigative journalist with the Associated Press, where she leads investigations on the impacts of AI technologies. She led the development of the new AI chapter in the AP stylebook and also helped to write the AP standards guiding the internal use of AI in the newsroom. In this episode, we discuss the crucial role of journalism in holding AI systems accountable and the challenges reporters face in covering this complex topic. Garens provides insights into investigating the deployment and performance of AI systems, the use of AI in elections, and the need for journalists to inform the public about AI's influence. on democratic processes Hi Gurants, welcome to Newsroom Robots. I'm so excited to talk to you today. Hi Nikita, it's such a pleasure to be here with you. Garance, I am a huge fan of the work that you do and the impact that your work has been having. in the world of AI and really keeping all of these AI systems accountable and which is what I want to get into today because AI is moving at such a complex and incredible pace. And reporting on AI with these rapid advancements is so crucial because as journalists, it's not just about understanding. the technical aspects, but it's about providing accurate, crucial coverage and making sure that in a sis in a time where technology is moving so quickly We need to also be able to understand and educate the public on how these systems are working, understand the biases that might be going and how these systems might actually be hurting us as a society. And that's where I want us to kind of understand what reporting on AI looks like from all the work that you've been doing. And actually to just back up in general 'Cause I feel like every reporter, whatever beat you're covering, is going to be talking about AI as well. Because it's AI is impacting every single industry. And so one of the first questions that I always think about in reporting on AI is What are the key questions and the processes you start thinking about when you are reporting on AI? What are those foundational questions that usually begin your investigations on AI systems? No, well thank you so much, Nikita. I completely agree. I think that AI is just now part of every beat that journalists cover. you know, whether you write about entertainment or you're a producer looking at the economy or you are, you know, someone who's focused on politics, AI stories are now part of everyone's daily lives, and are real job as journalists is to help the public understand how AI is affecting our world. And so I always try to take it back to journalistic basics. You know, there's sort of the who, what, where, when, why. And I think with AI models, for a particular period last year, We were in this hype cycle where many journalists felt like perhaps the statistics underlying these models were simply too difficult for the average reporter to understand. And I don't think that's the case at all. I think that taking it back to those journalistic basics of how the systems work where they're deployed, how well these models are performing, whether the tools are regulated, who's benefiting and making money as a result of AI's growth and then which communities may be impacted by these tools, whether that be negatively or positively. can help anchor a lot of the journalism around AI so that we get out of this kind of tiresome binary, frankly, of is AI good or bad? Well Actually, our job is to help people understand how it works and what it's already doing in our lives. There's also another crucial point to that of like what the role of journalism is in AI. How are you seeing the importance of this moment in time for the way in which we as reporters are talking about AI? Well, I think there's been a lot of excitement about adopting AI solutions in our newsrooms, which is great, you know, when There are new advances in technology that can help us do better, more impactful work that serves the public. Fantastic. But I think that implementing AI represents some really unique ethical challenges and part of our jobs as journalists is to really dig deep into the model so that we can surface how well they perform and where they have their limitations, some some of the hallucinations, you know, that we've been talking about. with chatbots, for example. If you start implementing a chatbot in your newsroom, you should definitely be aware of those limitations, right? So I think that our job is to both help explain how AI systems work and then focus on those really human stories that everyone can respond to that show the effect that AI tools have on people. Show audiences how government agencies are adopting these models to automate decisions. give people a sense of the money and power behind AI companies, the environmental impacts that these tools or having, you know, in order to to further the data science. So I think that there's a whole range of different stories that we need to be covering as journalists to really help the public, policymakers, you know, our court systems grapple with what it means to be in the middle of this real sea change where AI is transforming a lot of the world around us. And one of the core issues uh regarding AI systems is the problem of algorithmic bias. And a lot of your work has uncovered that in mass surveillance systems, in child welfare systems, how AI systems because of the biased data that could be used to train an AI system is not representing an entire population. And as a result, these algorithm decisions are favoring one group over the other because the way it was trained on. And so That's one of the big questions that comes up a lot in the discussions about AI and I think this has a lot of societal implications as well that we journalists have to keep in mind about how these AI systems are affecting it. And so I want to unpack this topic a bit more. How are you seeing and how can journalists more effectively identify and report on the algorithm bias that exists in AI tools? Well so I am a global investigative journalist with the Associated Press. So our work is seen by half the world's population every day. And algorithms, AI tools, you know, large language models are also used around the world to make a whole variety of very consequential decisions. You know, they're used in military applications to help to make targeting decisions. They're used by government agencies to decide which children should be taken from their parents' homes and sent to foster care. They're used to decide, you know, who should be eligible for parole early. And so increasingly I think that It's important to really surface the ways that these systems can harden some of our pre-existing real human biases into these automated decisions. So for example, my colleague Sally Ho and I did several stories over the last few years looking at a particular set of algorithms that child welfare agencies have used in making these really difficult decisions about which children may be at risk if they stay in their families' homes. Which is something that humans have been struggling to decide about for years as well. So several agencies thought, right, well why not let an algorithm make that choice. The problem is as we went further into this reporting, we found academic researchers who had access to all of the reams of data about local families that one agency in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania was using was that a lot of this data was either overrepresenting communities of color who had, you know, been a part of the child welfare system at a higher rate than white families over time. And there were also just some data variables that, you know, people had real questions about. For example, some of the t the elements that this algorithm in Allegheny County was contemplating to make this really Powerful decision about which kids should be sent to foster care included data points on whether a mother smoked before she was pregnant. or a family's disability status, the size of the family. And so I think that what we need to think about when we think about algorithmic bias is, you know, what's being measured and why and who is a part of the data. and who is left out of that data. Because that's really where we get into these questions of how AI models can actually magnify some of the pre-existing biases that have always been present in, you know, government decision making So it usually starts from going back to the data sources of how these AI systems are powered and understanding what kind of biases might exist and lead to these AI systems. So yeah, absolutely. I think, you know, if we see the ways in which AI systems can amplify human biases We can better understand how the predictions that these models make can systematically impact specific groups of people and basically reproduce past injustices. that might already be present in some of that historical data. So for example, there's some reporting in the past looking at how a sentencing tool That was trained on some historical data showed that black offenders typically receive longer prison terms. than white offenders, even if they committed the same crimes. Now if you feed that into a model, that could yield a prediction that incorporates that historical bias that's already present in the data. And that kind of bias can occur, you know, along lines of age or ethnicity, you know, sexual orientation, class, many other variables. It depends on you know, the the country and the the system in which these AI tools are being used. But I think it's really important to think about what's in the dataset and what's not. And when you talk about the data and the deployment of these tools, I feel like investigating the deployment and performance of AI systems can be quite challenging because of first of all the complexity of these AI systems to understand them. And often the proprietary nature of these technologies, like for example, with OpenAI, they're not even disclosing what data they have been trained on. A lot of these large language models, if you just look at that, we have no idea kind of like what the data sources are. and how they've been built. So how should journalists and how are you going about investigating that deployment and performance of the AI systems? Well, I think that what's wonderful is as journalists, we have so many different methodologies that we can use. So, you know, it isn't always the case that you're gonna have someone who wants to provide you the entire code base for a model. And sometimes these large language models are so complex that even the engineers who built them can't exactly explain what's happening under the hood. So I think that, you know, keeping in mind that there's a whole lot of different ways to approach understanding AI and its impacts is really paramount. so you can talk to directly to the communities who are being impacted by a certain model. You know, for instance, talk to the writers who have things to say about the ways in which their copyrighted material is being used. by chatbots now, right? You can talk to folks who are experts in machine learning and try to get a sense as to what they have observed with the performance of these different kinds of models over time. You know, the they aren't static, right? They keep changing. You can look on GitHub and see what all has been logged there. You can look for government contracts. You can find people within AI companies and within government agencies who really want to talk to you about you know, what exactly their AI system is doing. You know, sometimes people really wanna brag about how well their system is performing, which is great. We want to hear that too. We're really at a forefront of technological change and if people have a good story to tell that's welcome as well. You also will get insiders who have ethical qualms about how these models are being developed and that's another real opportunity for journalists to talk to the humans who've been involved in building or deploying them. And then finally you have a whole set of workers, you know, AI subcontractors who are often hired, you know, in the global south in countries like Kenya, Venezuela. to classify the images, the text that feed AI systems. And they have their own experience you know, from a worker standpoint as to what's powering these models and the effect that that's had on them. So I think there's just so many different ways to approach reporting that Journalists shouldn't get stuck if they don't have, you know, all of the tokens or all of the code base to analyze at once. There's a lot of ways in to help the public understand AI And I feel like it also requires strategic approach kind of to understand how to effectively talk about these AI systems. for the public and make them understand and make that information more accessible to a broader audience. So how do you kind of navigate that? balance when you're sharing details about these systems and making it more engaging and relevant to readers. Well I think one thing that that my team and I have really focused on over time is looking at how to do stories about AI that are really about politics or really about, you know voting rights or are really about, you know, moral issues that police are grappling with, you know, that really sort of have an element of an AI tool in them, but that help touch on these broader issues that I think all of us can relate to. And as journalists we're storytellers, so if we're so lucky as to gain the trust of people whose lives have been impacted by AI tools or who themselves have you know, grappled with how to best build or deploy them and they're willing to share their experiences, their thoughts, their very human feelings with us. I think that helps folks really understand that this is a situation where we're living through this huge moment of technological change and it's impacting all of us. This is no longer just a niche arena where if you happen to be a techie or a programmer you should be interested in AI. No, you know, if you work in a whole variety of fields that are going to be impacted by you know AI hiring and firing tools, this applies to you too. You know, if you are someone who works as a writer, ChatGPT may now be able to do something analogous to what you do every day. So I think that there's a lot of different ways that we can engage people in this time of news fatigue so that they can understand why AI directly matters to them In addition to all of that, I feel like there's also this big new way of understanding how to cover AI with because I feel like so far we have not been doing as great of a job because we've been leading into that hype of AI that's men sometimes the existential risk of AI has been the big thing that tech companies have been pushing forward and there's a lot of pitfalls I feel when you're covering AI that journalists encounter uh might be encountering and falling into that trap of the hype is the big one that is being pushed by the tech companies. And I'm very interested to get into how we should be the strategies to cover AI best with you because you wrote helped in writing the AI chapter of the AP's guide on AI. And I want to get into What are like some of the challenges that journalists would face when writing and covering AI? And what are those pitfalls that maybe we should think about more and avoid? No, I completely agree with you, Nikita. And you know, I was very lucky in that I was selected to be an inaugural fellow at Stanford University as part of the John Snight Journalism Fellowship as well as the Human Centered AI Institute. And so I was able to embed for about a year on the Stanford campus and really think deeply about how these models work, take programming classes myself, and see how systems were being used, you know, and everything from immigration to healthcare. So I came out with this real desire to help more journalists understand AI systems. So this wasn't just, you know sort of the the rarefied world of a few people who happened to be in Silicon Valley um and felt qualified to opine about them. So I led the writing of this new AI chapter of the AP Style book with that in mind to really democratize understanding of AI models through the vehicle of the AP Style Book. So the AP Style Book is basically seen as this, you know, real guidebook for journalists. It's also used by government agencies, by PR companies, all sorts of industry folks to figure out how to best write and cover different topic areas. It's essentially sort of like a strunken white for reporting. And what we really led with in this chapter is that You know, stories about AI tools should really aim to explain how they were built and how they work. And journalists should always try to understand the data that's used to power these AI models. as well as what you know the outputs are just as critically as we would scrutinize any other source of information. This is not a beat in which you want to be taking AI companies press releases as the final word. And what I think it's important for reporters to understand is that we all already have the StreetSmarts to, you know, to understand AI. This is not a situation where people are ill-equipped. So really getting at those basic questions about you know, who's making money, who's being impacted, then the the broader moral issues of what this means for society. are so important to keep in mind. And there's many, many different experts in academia, in our communities. you know, across many different fields who can help you get away from that hype cycle and really anchor your reporting in the real world. I think that's that's crucial And language is so crucial. The way in which we describe these AI systems and write those headlines for our articles, what do you recommend? What kind of guidelines do you recommend for journalists to use the right kind of language when describing these AI systems. Well, you know, one thing that was so gratifying as a part of writing this AI chapter for the AP style book, we really put out a bunch of basic Definitions for terms like AI itself or algorithms or chatbots to a broad panel of experts, practitioners people in the community, so we got a whole lot of different responses as to how we should word the entries for these what we call top ten terms in AI. And I think it was through that process of trying to boil down very technical concepts into language that average people can understand that we hit upon some really camera-ready definitions, if you will, for AI terminology that I hope can be useful to anyone who's trying to put together a story on deadline or just simply explain to their audiences how AI systems work. You know, it's it's difficult. to really make sure that these complicated statistical concepts can be conveyed in a way that is easily graspable. And so what I think folks will find in the AI chapter of the style book is a helping hand, you know, a friend who's there to guide you through the kinds of questions that you may want to ask as you're putting together your reporting on AI systems as well as a set of basic definitions? The big question that I usually think about when these hypes of existential risks are being pushed and these far-fetched claims about AI. are being made in demos and press releases. How can journalists be able to provide a more balanced view of the AI technologies? And kind of the strategies that they can employ to avoid that hype around AI when they are writing their stories? Well I think just with any other beat, it's really important to be wary of claims that an AI system is the first to, you know, reach a certain milestone or that sometime soon we're gonna get to artificial general intelligence when essentially, you know, the robots are better at doing human tasks than we ourselves are. So I think just a healthy amount of skepticism is good. But also, you know, it's a it's a chance to really broaden journalist network and find people who can provide a counterbalance or a check on their own assertions. You know, what's basic here is as with any other release of information, consider the source. And then try to report against any hypotheses that you may be bringing to this so that you're sure that you are putting forward information that is really accurate about what these AI systems can and can't do. And I think in terms of, you know, the narratives about AI models wiping out humanity, I would say those have been around for decades, you know, humans have always been fascinated by robots. And while that can be sort of enticing to explore, thinking about existential risk to my mind really risks itself distracting attention from real world problems such as, you know, how AI is being used to misinform voters in this crucial election year, right? So I think it's, you know, sure, willing to entertain concerns about existential risk, but I see our job as journalists to really help the public understand the here and now and the the very real world impacts of AI. Yeah, I agree with you. I feel like that existential risk is distracting us sometimes from like what's actually happening behind the scenes and how it's impacting society at the moment. And what I'm also hearing from you is in order to be able to cover this beat effectively and not add to the hype, it seems like resource your sources and people in academia who are researching and working in this field are those that could be good people to talk to about how things are framed and how the language around AI is framing. And that's that's what your work was focusing on while building the AI chapter as well Yeah, and I think that, you know, there's also a real opportunity for newsrooms to scale up so that we can test out these models ourselves I think that, you know, the goal is if you can reverse engineer an AI system and really understand what's going on under the hood. But when that isn't possible, there's all sorts of interesting ways that you can test out these tools and their limits. For n for example, a collaboration with Proof News earlier this year, we looked at what happens when we prompt the five most popular chatbots. with basic questions about how the US democracy functions, you know, where is my polling place? And through testing out what the chatbots would respond to those questions we realized some of their limitations. You know, they were just in response to a prompt about where is my polling place in a predominantly black neighborhood in Philadelphia saying nope, there's no polling place there for you, or another chat bot said in response to a question about, you know, how can you vote in California? You can go ahead and send in that vote. by text message. So think there's also ways to to use the models themselves to figure out new ways to bring forward information in the public interest. You know, you can use a synthetic data set, like sort of a computer generated data set similar to the data used to train the model to simulate what somebody using that tool would experience. There's all sorts creative ways to to tease this out. What I'm really hearing is also that is being able to play around with these systems and experiment with it It's not just the product teams in the newsroom who might be building tools for AI. It's also just the journalists being able to understand how these tools work. Playing around and experimenting with that so that they can then reverse engineer how these tools might be working and help them in analyzing all of these AI systems. Absolutely. And you know, some of the work that I've been leading at AP has been really to implement more ways of using AI models in our reporting to let the robots do some of the work, right? I think that we're so often faced with these huge data sets, you know, massive numbers of documents. And in those situations Sometimes, if properly vetted and analyzed by a human downstream, these AI models can be useful in doing some of that grunt work. So I think that there's all sorts of really interesting applications at the intersection of open source investigative reporting. and visual applications for AI models. You know, there's there's many different ways that we can think about implementing these tools to really help augment some of the work that we do. But that said, I think the same basic principles should always apply. You know, think about how these models were built, you know, whether the output that you're gonna get is actually gonna be accurate, you know, is this an ethical application? for an AI model to help augment some of your journalism at an AP, we're really very cautious about implementing any AI tools. Our journalism always starts with a human being and ends within a human being. So I think it's a It's a time of great experimentation across the industry, which is, you know, a unique chance that we have, right, to consider these models. But I don't think that we should be necessarily applying AI solutions to to problems that don't need them. Exactly. And I'm curious to hear in your investigation so far, what are those some of the specific ways in which it has been helping you to do your job and augment your reporting? Well, I think one very basic tool that we have is an AI model that generates transcriptions from podcasts. Which allows me to go back and see what was said without having to sit through an hour, right? And so that's a that's a really basic one but shouldn't be underestimated as a time saver for journalists on deadline. There's some other approaches that we're considering looking at content analysis of huge amounts of data, um, particularly in this election cycle that I think could also help add some new insights to what we're able to glean about the messaging that's being shown to voters out there in the universe where AI can really give us more power. So those are just a couple examples right now. And I want to get into that AI and its impact on elections because you've just done a bunch of reporting on that and it's a significant area of concern given just the recent advancements in AI and how it could be used by political parties. What are sort of the impacts of AI on elections that you're seeing? Because you're seeing your reporting so far has been showing about how the use of AI has been used in like the Biden and the Trump campaigns as well And how are you seeing AI shaping those political strategies during elections? No, I think that's such a good question, Nikita. So we just started a new series called the AI Campaign. That's exploring the influence of artificial intelligence in this crucial election year around the globe. And you know, a lot of elections officials have said that they're really concerned about AI's potential to, you know, create content that could mislead voters, you know, and as generative AI tools really grow in sophistication. officials are worried that they could steer voters to avoid the polls or just generally erode the public's trust in what they see and hear. So we again were most interested in Who are the human beings who are deploying these AI tools for campaigns and what exactly are they using? So the first couple stories focused on Brad Pascal, who's a digital campaign operative who helped engineer Donald Trump's 2016 presidential victory. who now has a new AI-powered platform that he says will really transform campaigning. He says that his AI-powered tools are gonna usher in a wave of conservative victories worldwide. And that's everything from, you know, AI that can generate customized emails gauge voter sentiment, you know, amplify the social media posts of anti-woke influencers, etc. The second story dealt with how the Biden campaign is considering using AI and really still smarting from having been outmaneuvered by Donald Trump and his allies in twenty sixteen. So they're actually just still grappling with how to use AI to help them motivate voters, you know, and also identify deceptive content. But they did tell us that they were actually using AI for fundraising, for example. So I think that this is just an area where As members of the press, we really want to inform voters about what it is that they'll be seeing coming to their you know, cell phones in the months to come. If they're getting all sorts of messages with photos that look mm not quite real, or if they're suddenly getting a chat bot asking them to come to a campaign rally. you know, maybe think twice about whether this is actually being created by human beings who are seeking to, you know, persuade you to join a particular campaign or if there may be some AI involved. the use of AI in elections, it's I mean, it's not just influence from foreign actors that is there, but also just how campaign parties might be using you to persuade voters and influence kind of decision making during these democratic processes and also the privacy and the data security and how it's all being used to create these AI systems. There's so many complex issues to that. Absolutely. And these issues are global, Nikita, as you know so well, you know, what is trialed here in the US may later show up in Brazil or India or vice versa. You know. campaigns and digital consultants are really trying all sorts of AI approaches to winning elections this year and it's so unregulated that I think this is another area where journalism can play a role in informing both the public and policy makers about how these new technologies are suddenly affecting our democratic processes. And so I just want to understand more about how important is it right now for us as journalists to be really investigating and looking into all of these AI systems. Well, I think that one thing um reporters can keep in mind is that AI systems are really unregulated by and large around the world. And so there's an opportunity To have real-world impact with journalism that deeply and in a nuanced fashion helps the public understand how these tools work don't work and who they're impacting. We saw that, for example, with our reporting on child welfare algorithms that helped to prompt a federal civil rights investigation from the U. S. Department of Justice. We did reporting on predictive and surveillance tools that were used. after COVID hit by government agencies to instead monitor marginalized populations and really shed some light there that people hadn't been aware of. And I think with the elections coverage that we're doing, we're already seeing that have an impact as well. So this reporting matters and it also helps inform what policymakers, you know, people in the legal system understand about these tools and where they are working and not working. So I think that there's a real opportunity to be ahead of actual laws about AI and help to inform how the public understands and is affected by these tools simply from the power of doing really good, nuanced and deep reporting. And as an investigative reporter, you are investigating AI, but AI is not just that niche topic for tech reporters anymore. So what advice would you really give to journalists today covering all kinds of beats? You don't have to be just an AI reporter to be covering it and since it's impacting every industry. So How should we be critically thinking about AI and reporting on it, whatever our beat is right now? Well, I think that again, you really don't need to be an engineer to interrogate these systems or understand them. I think that really focusing on the people who build AI tools, who are affected by AI tools, whether that's Hollywood writers who are striking over their concerns about AI replacing them as script writers, or whether that's people in Kenya who have helped to go through all of these very disturbing images to create AI-powered deepfakes, there's always human beings who you can access. And I think that really understanding this moment as one in which AI companies are seeking to extend their power into a whole number of realms from you know military applications to education to health care is an important thing to keep in mind. As journalists, we need to understand how power and money moves And keeping track of that is is only gonna help inform the public. I think absolutely chronicling some of the Technological advances is crucial, but also understanding those in the greater policy context and how this affects regular people is super important to keep in mind. I think bringing back that attention on the humans and the humans behind the systems and the humans that these systems would affect. Those are the two components that we should be looking at. with basically every beat at this moment and how AI is impacting and influencing it. Absolutely, absolutely. And I think that You know, it's really an opportunity to have newsrooms think about the ethics of all of this. I've been engaged at AP with our standards. work around the use of AI as well. And I think it's important to, you know, think about both the upside, but also proceed cautiously. You know, there's an opportunity to have deeper ethical discussions about what is the right way to implement you know, AI tooling in our, you know, sacred news production, right? We bring the people the facts of what's happening in their world. And so when is it appropriate? to insert, you know, some AI assistance in that, what's the right level of disclosure we should have for our audiences, when and if we do that. And you know, how can we continue to really scrutinize these models, both as a part of our journalism, and also to help inform which solutions newsrooms end up adopting. And talking about all of the implementations, I kind of want to finally wrap things up by just hearing more about how you've been utilizing these technologies just personally as well, because it seems like professionally you play around with these tools to investigate them. But I find it fascinating to just hear how has it been making an impact on your life personally? Well I'll just say for starters, you know, I live in San Francisco. right down the street from many big AI companies. So it's really a local story for me. You are surrounded by it. That's right. That's right. You know, and so I think it's It's a very personal story in that I have friends who work in AI companies, who work in arenas that oppose, you know, any kind of growth of AI. who work in policy around AI and who are also academic researchers and in communities that are impacted. So for me it's really kind of, you know, just part and parcel of my daily life at this point. I think that may be common to the Bay Area, not so much in other parts of the world. But I'm also just always cognizant of the power and reach that AI tools have. And so what's developed here in my backyard, you know, eventually shows up across the globe. And So I think about that, for example, when using chatbots, you know, I'm always thinking about, well, how well do these perform in different languages? If I'm seeing you know, issues crop up in English, one of the languages I speak, how well does it perform in other situations? And I so I think that I'm always very personally thinking about this Silicon Valley perspective and how that can be exported in ways that, you know, just may not fit the circumstance. But personally, you know, I find chatbots can be good at generating recipes, you know, if I'm trying to make Roast potatoes, pretty good at that. I think I tend to be, you know, very interested in privacy concerns about the data. that powers these models, and so I'm probably less likely than your average person to be giving over a lot of Ro you know, very personal or even professional information to these models. So I'm I'm really using them more in a professional Context, although I wouldn't discount, you know, having some use for a singing chatbot down the road, you never know. You never know. And as long as those recipe chatbots don't hallucinate and give you the wrong temperature to cook your chicken on So and don't hallucinate over there. They are useful. But I I completely understand and somebody who's so deeply ingrained into how these AI systems work, you must be quite aware about the privacy concerns and and the risks of data leakage and the security of data systems that these models have as well. Well right, and I think we live in an age where it's so easy to clone a person's voice or face, as we've seen in the discussion about Scarlett Johansson and OpenAI's talking chatbot that, you know, some real concerns about privacy and ownership of one's likeness. are important to keep at top of mind when experimenting with these tools, for sure. And I think just in general, you know, as we're building out some of our reporting about the impact of AI on democracy this year. You know, we're really thinking about what kinds of very personal data Have we as a society given over? And how are these models now using that to predict and surveil? and, you know, seek money from all of us in new ways that we didn't anticipate, right? So I think that keeping You know, just those basic questions in mind of what's in the data, where did it come from? You know, how does that inform what AI models are doing? is really important, both, you know, in one's personal and professional life. Lots of big questions there, and you've given me a lot to think about. especially on how these systems are being built and how we as reporters need to be thinking about it more critically and approaching covering this topic. And I think I've learned so much from just the work that you've been doing and I'm excited to read more about and learn more about how this work on AI elections is. really impacting and how the impacts on AI and elections have been transforming just the way in which our electoral processes are going on right now. And so I'm gonna be very excited to read through all of those investigative pieces that you're working on right now and I just want to thank you so much, Garants, for joining me on Newsroom Robots. This has been so insightful to learn more about how we can do better as journalists and report on AI. Thank you so much, Nikita. I've learned so much from you as well, and it's such a pleasure to be in conversation. I look forward to our next one. That was Garan Sperk, global investigative journalist at the Associated Press. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.