This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Today I'm joined by Martin Shori, the deputy managing editor and associate publisher of Afton Bladet, Scandinavia's largest newspaper He's also the program lead for Aften Bladit's AI Hub, a specialized team focusing on driving AI innovation and implementing AI-powered solutions at Aftenblad. In this episode, Martin takes us through the newsroom's AI journey, from building their AI hub to launching their first chatbot. which was developed to engage readers during the EU elections. Hi Martin, welcome to New From robots, excited to talk to you today about all that's happening at Apton Blooded. Hello, thank you for letting me be here. Martin, your work has been particularly intriguing, I'd say I've always spoken about Afton Bladed, which is part of the larger media group Shifstead. And I think it's one of the most innovative media companies there in the Nordic, you've really been pushing the innovation of what's possible with AI. And so I want to really get into that journey. of how AI has been a part of the newsroom and how you've been working on it. And let's start by looking back because when we spoke in before this, you were talking about how last year y'all had got onto this AI journey and started with building this AI hub. So can you give us a bit of a background on Aftenbladet and what that AI journey has looked like so far? Sure. I'd be happy to. So Aftom Lodet is uh Scandinavia's largest uh newspaper. We have been around uh for a long time, since 1830. And uh we started publishing uh online in 1994. So it's been uh the online journey has been going on for quite a while now. Although I guess we're still uh in some kind of transformation as uh everybody else. So um and we have uh Sweden has around 10 million inhabitants and we reach around 4 million of them every day. So we have uh we're qu quite big here in in Sweden. I would say that when this like AI boom started a little over a year ago now, or a year and a half ago, probably. When you looked around in the business, I think a lot of other media houses were very focused on the threats and uh who to sue. And uh although this uh I mean uh copyright uh is obviously uh a very important issue. But at the same time we felt that well we should as journalists we should be curious and we should uh also be talking about like what could be used this new technology for the benefits of of our readers and and ourselves, so to say. So um we started uh experimenting with it and we started b by developing uh a tool which were the AI generated uh article summaries that we might get into later uh maybe. But after that, I would say that there was a lot of ideas coming out of the newsroom. Uh Ships that aftermore is a big organiz organization and Shipstat is also a big organization. So many of those ideas were deprioritized by central either centralized or or maybe brand teams like uh product and tech teams because there were bigger uh projects going on. So we felt that okay, if we want to Be really fast and be experimental, and also educate the rest of the newsrooms. Så it's not just a bunch of people working there. Then we need to build something on top. of the the organization. And that's how the idea of an AI hub started. And so you started with this AI generated summaries tool and then In order to prototype and work fast, you created this AI hub. So can you provide a more understanding of what that AI hub looks like and what have been some of the projects you've been focused on over there? Sure. The AI hub the idea was to not to make like another product team with a PM. So um uh we wanted to have around seven people and uh we wanted uh the majority to be editorial. And that's also important, I think, for the cr credibility in the newsroom. We all know that journalists sometimes can be a little bit uh if someone uh comes from another department and wants to talk about something, maybe the journalists will be suspicious and they're not always listening. So that was also important for us that uh we wanted to have a lot of editorial people in it. And we wanted it to be led by an editorial person. So Emilia, who is usually at Sportblad, at our sports section, she's a breaking news editor there. She became the project manager of the AI hub. And then we have uh three other editorial colleagues working with the their editors and reporters, basically. We also have two uh developers, two software developers, and one UX designer. So that was the team. And um They had uh they they're all working full-time, so they have their other jobs. Uh they left their other jobs uh and we said that they're gonna work for six months and then we extended that another six months So we're gonna be soon it's been uh a full year that they've been working. And uh I would say that the AI hub's tasks initially were three. Um the first one was to We've felt that it's um important because we think that this is a new technology that would uh uh really change things. So it's it should not just be these seven people. working with AI and knowing about AI. So their task was also to to learn as much as possible and then educate the others. So that was one of the first things we did. was launching a course like a master class in prompting. We called it How to Be a Prompt Queen. And had that, and we actually everybody at Aftonbladet took that klass or course. So that was important for us. Another one was uh basically just to experiment and uh implement editorial tools, I would say, based on on AI. And also being responsible for when we did that, that we did it in like an in a responsible and ethical way. So the AI literacy component started with the prompting courses. Have there been more courses and trainings that you have provided as to further the knowledge in there? Yeah, before we did the first class, we did like a survey like how much do do people know about AI and how much do they use the tools? So it was uh basically only ChatGPT around then And then we can we after six, eight months, we did another class and then we did another survey as well, so we could see how the the changes, how the use has had changed We have also except uh apart from that, we've been doing different workshops. Uh we have had class uh courses on mid-journey. and I in a lot of uh AI uh uh oriented uh ways I would say. So it's they've been very and and another I mean these kind of Classes or courses in big forums are good, but I think the most benefits have come out of uh people from the AI hub sitting out uh in the newsroom or with other departments. And just uh being available and hearing what people are talk talking about and what what tasks they're doing and uh seeing if uh if you could use uh AI for that basically. So that that's also been important that they are visible in the newsroom. And working with them. And as I said, I think it's it helped a lot that the other journalists they knew these people. And I mentioned Emilia Bosa had another colleague called Elin. She's also. She worked at uh as an editor uh at the news department, and she's a very a person that people she has a lot of credibility and everybody knows her. So I think that was important too. That's this this were Colleagues that yeah have a high credibility in at Aftom Lovet and that they were working with this. And let's get into those editorial tools because y'all created a bunch of different editorial tools and prototype them at the AI hub. What was that journey like? Yes, and I as I said the the first thing we did, and this was even before the um the AI hub solid was the a tool that was actually uh for the audience, and that was the AI Generated article summaries. We were heavily inspired by our colleagues at VG, Verdensgang in Norway, who did uh the same thing before us. And that was basically just to we wanted to just do something uh with AI uh and uh see what we could come up with. And it turned out to be a very successful and uh tool because w we immediately saw that the audience uh liked it and that they used it a lot. So these summaries you have to expand. It's like a box under underneath the lead. And uh you can expand it if you want to read a three bullet point summary. And this tool is integrated in the CMS as well. So a reporter, when having written an article, he or she could just press a button and it will generate an article. You'll read through it and publish it. So it's very fast. So that was uh that was the first thing we did and it that was it was great because it's it's actually turned out to be w we we got to experiment with AI, but we also created a product. Or a service that a lot of our audience uh liked. So ab of about 40% of the people who see this box. we'll expand it. So that's that's great. And do they continue reading further as a result? Yeah they did. And that was that also surprised us a little bit because uh We could see that actually those who did expand the box did read the article to a greater extent. Or longer than those who didn't uh expand it. So that was a bit surprising, but I guess these summaries give you a very Yeah, you you really understand what what this article is about, and sometimes that's not the case with the lead. It could it can be, but it's not always. So that was good. Um but as I said, um then we we did Put a lot of attention after we had created the AI hub. We put a lot of uh attention on editorial tools. And a few of them were we built into the CMS, but uh some of them were just more like prompt rappers, like really simple task like a translator. One which we call Sponaran, which is basically: if you've written an article, you can paste the link to the artikel, and it will give you the tool will give you a suggestion. Suggestion of five follow-up stories. And that's something you can do obviously in Chat GPT, for example, by yourself. And then you can also have you know, a conversation with it. And that's not possible in the tool we created. But this was just a very, very small step into using AI. So it's we we should like really lower the threshold to start. So that was some of the the tools we did. And then also when when ChatGPT had their upgrade where you can create your own GPT, we had seven people sitting there that could just start uh experimenting. We we created some uh of those or a lot of those as well that we still use actually. And all these like the ones that we created or built uh by ourselves and all the GPTs we did we put in what we call like an AI buffet. So that's like a a destination that the journalists or editors can go to and you can They can it could uh there's a tool for creating uh TikTok uh manuscripts out of articles. There's one called the Budreader that actually Elin that I mentioned before who has no previous experience in in programming built, uh which is a great like proofreading feedback tool for articles that uh people are using We have one that's it's called the youth assistance, which helps which creates fact boxes and timelines with uh instructed to do it so that an 18-year-old reader reader will understand them So yeah, that was a lot of um I would say that the first maybe five or six months in were very focused on education, but also these editorial tools. And so these examples you're mentioning are all custom GPTs that you built and put that as part of an AIB fe? Not all of them, but uh some of them were. Some of them were custom GPTs and others were like simple tools that we built on our own, but based on on open AI. And what did you see with the the promise with custom GPTs and how are you experimenting with them right now? Well, I think that right now we're not doing that much about it. I mean some people are doing it by you know creating their own GPTs uh for their own use, but we're not doing that many right now aim for the the whole newsroom to use. It's just because we we changed focus and we from editorial tools going elsewhere so to say. Uh so there's nothing wrong with with them, I would say. But we're just we have focused on on other things than developing new ones. You added uh to brings me to the point that when you spoke previously, you expressed some skepticism about the ability For AI to help with a lot of editorial tasks. Like why that shift happened. Well, I think that we also, I mean, we went to conferences and uh listened to uh thinkers uh talking about how Like one of the great benefits with AI should be like automatization of content production and uh it was very popular to say that oh you know AI will replace all the boring tasks and And we're gonna save so much time and so much money on AI. So journalists will no longer have to do all the boring tasks, and instead we can do like investigative journalism. We can invest all this money and time that we s that we save into investigative journalism. And that sounds great. And it would be fantastic if that happened. But for us at least at Afton Bodit, we're pretty we're focused on breaking news. So there is a lot of I mean we do a lot of stuff except that, but uh I would say that breaking news is is the core of our business, but still we don't have that many people working with it. And their jobs include also following up uh tips that people send into the newsroom, calling the police or uh the authorities. So it's at least for us, there aren't that many tasks. at least not now, that this technology can manage to automate. And we've been trying a lot, but uh we haven't really found that. And I mean there's a big exception here and that's transcription. Like if you you can upload interviews or you could uh Chipstead has built its own tool that's you can you could also Transcribe, for example, press conferences live, and that's great, and that saves a lot of time. But when it comes to written text and rewriting articles and All that stuff for us at least it hasn't saved us much time. And I think maybe if we would have built in all these functions in our CMS That it would uh create uh SEO headlines or they would optimize uh articles for SEO, creating fact boxes, uh headlines, you know, whatever. It might have been different, but uh I think that that part of AI in the newsroom has at least up until now been a bit exaggerated. For us, it hasn't given that much benefits that we thought it would. And that's also why we more or less we I wouldn't say that we have dropped it, but we put it on hold and uh have focused on on other stuff. So when you were talking about it's not giving you the same impact with editorial tasks. It's mainly been because of maybe some of the tasks are more requiring journalists. to call up and follow up the sources and breaking those news. And it seems like also because these tools are not embedded in the CMS, that gap that Because having to shift from one tool to the other was kind of a barrier in using these tools as well. Yes, I think that most people that I've been talking to have kind of the same uh uh experience that If you have to go to another destination, although it's just uh not far away, that's it's uh an extra task. And I mean we could you could see that even with the uh AI-generated article summaries that we knew that Audience appreciate it a lot. And it's super easy. As I said, that one is integrated to the CMS. It is one click and you read three bullet points, maybe you change something. Usually you don't have to do that. And then you publish generate still it was took quite a lot of work to remind reminding people that they should use it. And maybe it's something because you said that with again, with AI you're supposed to uh save so much time and but this is an add-on. Um I mean it's it would save time if we would have done the the summaries uh manually, but we didn't do them before. And also it was the same thing with with all this like tools we did with great like fact boxes and timelines and that's I think th these things are very important for maybe engaging younger users, but it's also stuff that we might have done before, but not on a large scale. So you couldn't say that we save a lot of time. And also, I mean, rewrites are something that we do a lot. Uh and I know that some of our Norwegian colleagues have been uh successful in that and maybe that's something, but and I also know of um media houses that have integrated some of these uh Tools and in the CMS, and where there isn't that you don't have to go somewhere else to get them, so to say. And they claim that they have saved some time. But I just even with that, for us at least, I can't say that. It would have that like major impact that we have been talking about. I found that really interesting because I'm finally hearing somebody talking. about how maybe it didn't go the way you expected it to. And that brings me to a lot of points about like what the was there a tool maybe you thought was gonna be really successful and ended up not being and was was a failure in a way. I think one good example is headline creation. We have often laudis coming from a tabloid background. We put a lot of uh prestige and pride in our uh headline making, for example. And and we have people that have been working here for a long time and they know they know how to make a great headlines. And That was also one of the first things that I heard about AI. Like yeah, you can use it for headline generation. And we've tried that a lot. And you know, give me 10 uh different uh 10 suggestions and oh make it more uh tabloid and da-da-da. But still, it's uh usually an editor will come up with an eleventh uh version that's that's even better than the first ten. So um that's also uh somewhat of a risk, I would say, because Again, when you when you hear that, because it was a lot of talk about headline generation in the beginning. And if you're a journalist, then okay, now I'm gonna try this chat GPT thing And then you ask it for ten headlines and they all they're all super bad. Then you're gonna say, okay, well this technology is is nothing for me or it's overrated. And I think that was also one of the reasons why we felt it was important to have these like prompt queen classes that so use it for the right things because there are great benefits and there are for You know, idea brainstorming and or whatever it could be. But if you use it in the wrong way, that will only lead to people You saying that okay this technology is is is not for me. What would you say the key benefits you feel like for a newsroom that this technology has now after all of these experiments that you've done? Well I think that's obviously if you're if you have a lot of data and you're gonna do some a big like research project big investigative project That's uh something that you could use AI for absolutely. I think that uh I mean personally I use it um uh a lot for like idea generation brainstorming Like basically, whenever you're gonna do something, you start by asking your preferred chatbot for suggestions on on stuff to to to write or whatever you're gonna do. So uh and I think that has helped helped us a lot. Also in breaking news uh situation it's sometimes it has been very good to you know when someone posts uh a document, a photo of a document online. I mean these are basic things, but you can use ChatGPT just to to transcribe it and translate it and you can get a we have several Examples on how we have been been able to break news that way. So I'm sure there and again, uh transcription is is probably the biggest gain, I would say. But otherwise, I think. I mean Schipstadt as well as other media companies, I think, or at least when you know when you go to Inmaur and you you look what people are doing, we have been very focused on the newsroom. And I think that's logical, but there's probably a lot of things that you could do within marketing or the business side, working with subscriptions, with churn prevention, that kind of things. And I I know that a lot of people are doing that But maybe we haven't seen that money great examples of it. So I I guess if you go to uh I mean I went to a conference in last spring with Nordic AI in journalism, which was uh Organized by uh one of my colleagues, uh Agnes Dienbohm from Sheepsted as well. And there you had so many great uh use cases, uh, but they were Most of them, if not any, were were focused on on the newsroom. So I think a lot of people started there. So I think that there's most big potential when it comes to uh again with subscriptions or personalization uh for example. i is another interesting topic uh which doesn't require AI, but I'm sure it can help. Yeah, and I completely agree with you. I think there's We all started with the newsrooms and maybe the marketing, the business operations part of it. Might also be the slightly lower risk places to start with experimenting with generative AI because it's not at the core of what the service that we're providing. But you've been speaking about how the AI hub is now evolving and shifting focus. from editorial. What are you now looking at the role of the iHub is going to be? We've been focusing on more on products and tools for the audience. And I mean that's um the goal here is obviously to to create or to have a more modern use experience. Um if AI can help us, that's great. And I mean one of the biggest examples which has uh consumed most of the time for the AI hub last spring and also now is the shot the election chatbots that we did for the EU elections. And that was a pretty big bet that he took that okay we wanted to to create a chat bot. The first idea was to create it for the whole Content, as I said, we've been around since 1830, so we have a lot of content. But for uh various reasons, we decided to okay, let's try it on a news event instead. And on what event should that be? Well, we have the EU elections coming up. Why not try that? And it was a bit a bit risky, I would say, because it's uh the the EU elections are not a very engaging news event for most Swedes The parliamentary elections are, but the EU elections, you know, not that much. And also we're used, as you know, to have control of everything that we publish, like every number, every single letter that we put out there have been uh read through by an editor, but this this time we just let we had no control. whatsoever. So it took a while to convince our management team that this was the b our big AI bet that we were gonna do. But uh they told they gave us a a go and we did we did it So can you walk us through how that election bot, the response that the election bot has gotten from the audience so far and how did you go about Building it to that stage. Yeah sure I mean for us of I mean politics is also a risky subject because if you If you have if it provides a wrong answer or if someone we did have a lot of people trying to break the bot with having it telling them what party to vote for, for example So we knew that there was a uh some kind of a risk. But also it's kind of simple because you have the there's a lot of data about the election, how do they work? How does the the the EU parliament work? What is the different you know, political positions of the party, how are the groups organized? So there's a lot of data and uh around there. And we also did A lot of uh surveys and interviews by ourselves. So the election bot is is is journalism. And I think that's Maybe that was something uh a mistake we did when we started talking about this. That I think a lot of people thought that this is a chat bot. It works like other chat, but it just, you know, it's just some kind of technical shell and then it goes out on the internet to find the answers. And that was not the case. We wanted to have uh total control. So we we did a rag model and we did um a huge database with all the the the data and the the answers that we have have got them from the the political parties. I think we used to almost a hundred different sources and we uh Instructed it to not not to if it didn't know the answer, it shouldn't invent or hallucinate, which can be a problem with with chatbots as we all know. And we put a lot of effort uh into that. We also uh coming from as I said a tabloid, we have a pretty close connection to our readers. So we wanted the chat bot to have like a face and uh Vi kollar The Election Body. It's a vertig kjub with a EU bandana. And it's has a very casual, informal tone. It was a lot of work with also like doing all the research, putting it in there. After we had launched it, we would uh we had some pre-prompted questions. But you could also, if you log in, you could uh ask whatever question you want to. We first we had a limit of uh 10 questions. I think we raised that until to 30 questions because we didn't we were a bit worried about the the cost. But um we launched it and uh I mean I was worried that okay but maybe we get like ten questions for the whole election period because it's you know nobody cares about the EU elections. But I think we got like 18,000 questions just the first day. So we were a bit uh overwhelmed there. And although we did see people trying to break it, like having its uh yeah, you know people always want to to find errors. So We we had some malicious attempts, and we also categorized all the questions, and we were trying manually to go through and fact-check all the answers, and that was kind of hard to keep up because there were so many questions. Up until this point we haven't seen any hallucinations or or any errors. So that was also amazing and and people Would answer, you know, or would ask questions like if the EU Parliament was the Lord of the Rings, like who would the elves be? And it would try to answer. Um Always in a very friendly uh uh manner. So that was very cool. And so it would answer all of those questions, but still maintain its neutrality. And you had been able to program it in a way so that you also would do not see any hallucinations. And I think that goes back a lot to the data in Could you talk more about how this you structured that data for these models? We took all the data that we that that we had and we we put it in a in a database and also again um We worked w with it continuously so that we could see that maybe okay, now a lot of people are asking questions about this. Then we can take that and put it as a pre-prompted question, for example. And uh it also gave us a lot of knowledge about uh what people are wondering about in election times. And and that's insight those insights we could use for writing new articles, for example, and also next time there's an election, we we will know probably. what people would be interested in. So it was it was very good for for you know making j future journalism as well. Because you said you were putting like questions and answers in it. Was that how you were programming the questi the data or you were taking all of the journalists' articles about that have been written about the EU elections and the political parties and putting that as your data? That was actually something we could probably have done more, like referring to our own journalism. We did that in in some cases, but Otherwise it was just a lot of manually testing and and uh also I mean we used uh open AI. We were fortunate that ChatGPT launched its uh the the 4-0 version which is a bit cheaper but also it was just like a couple of weeks uh if I remember it correctly before. So um that was the the base uh of it so to speak So how many of these questions and answers were you having? When we uh put the robot to sleep uh after a couple of weeks, it had answered about 150,000 questions, maybe 160,000. About 40% were the pre-prompted one, but 60% were other types of questions that people have formulated themselves. And uh again you had to log in to do that. So we got a lot of new loggings. It was uh logging is a big issue for uh news media here in in uh Scandinavia, and I think that Uh usually when we do like all kinds of initiatives for um having people logging in, we usually around 5% or something like that. But this one was way higher almost a tenfold. It gave us a lot of uh uh logins as well, which was uh great. And uh again I said that there were some there was a lot of people just like trolling and uh did things like that. But the vast majority were just people asking legitimate questions about the EU elections And that surprised me a lot. And I think that's it was fun to see that. And how did our audience feel about that chatbot? Are they wanting more of such experiences? First of all, we were worried that uh it would it will provide the wrong answers and we had uh Q<unk>A's and uh we were also like super transparent, like this is AI, it's sometimes it's wrong. We had that Written all over the bot, and we had like a plan for you know, we all thought that's okay, it will probably say something really stupid. Someone will screenshot it and it will be all on uh X and everywhere else. Uh nothing of that happened. It's basically the same with all the other AI initiatives that we've been doing, that people don't really care that much. I mean, as long as something is Relevant, true, relevant, and uh then they like it and they don't really care like how does the like these leftters end up in the cell phone? So a lot of people used it. Uh so for or and asked its question. So I guess that indicates that they liked the service, but that it was like based on AI, it was not a big issue. We got a couple of emails with people saying that it was fun and great and fantastic, and you know, a teacher writing like, Oh, this is uh great for democracy, you're engaging young people in uh a boring election. But Mostly, and you know, we get we got a lot of attention in um media publications and stuff, but for the most part, there wasn't that much response at all, I would say that reached us. Not that many people writing about it in on on Twitter saying it was either good or bad. Again, maybe we as a business sometimes overrate like just the the AI, like oh we have used AI and it's co either cool or bad or a threat or or whatever. But uh again I think that we we have seen that when we when we do use AI and we're very transparent about it If people think that the the content or the journalism is uh or the format for that matter is good and relevant, then they like it. If not, they don't like it. So uh that has also been pretty interesting, I think, to to see. And the data seems to indicate that they liked it because you had this is one of the most successful initiatives of converting people in and logging them in, getting them to log in. And you got a lot of questions asked within that two-week period when the bot was available. Yeah, almost uh twenty thousand just in one day. So what are the AI's hub AI hub's priorities now? It's going more towards chatbot and audience features. The the chatbot is uh getting some well-deserved uh rest right now after the having working very hard. But uh there are other elections and news events coming up. Uh so it's we just we might just replace that uh bandana, the EU bandana. And again, it takes a lot of work. So it's if we're gonna do it again or when, it's although we have everything uh we know how to do it, it consumes uh a lot of manpower. So that's what we're focusing on. Also uh We're gonna try more stuff within like text to speech and audio. We have a new uh tool or service that's also aimed at the audience coming out in in the coming weeks, I would say, which are text-to-speech based. And uh we have also been experimenting a little bit with podcasts and translation and uh in Sweden, for example, we have big communities with uh where Swedish is like the second language and maybe they want to consume the news in another language, for example. And that's something we've been experimenting with a lot. And hopefully we can do something with that. So translating podcasts and getting things text-to-speech. Yeah. Getting your articles and audio as well. And you've also done a lot of initiatives regarding and analyzing your content and using AI for that. Yeah, that was actually one of the the things that it's a highlight also I would say for us at least that we we we did this in collaboration with a Danish company called MediaCatch. So we we analyzed all our content uh one year back, uh from now on a year back. And it was around a hundred thousand articles. And uh it was podcasts and thousands of uh social media posts, and uh videos, and pictures, or photos, but they're usually in articles. Um The goal there was to to see like who who is uh heard and seen in Scandinavia's biggest newspaper when it comes to uh gender or maybe um How we're doing on diversity, age is another uh big issue. I mean we had our suspicions, but that was very interesting also to get it like we got so much data and we could We could see w what's you know, how does the culture department differ from the sports department or news or uh entertainment showbiz? And that was super interesting. And we could see we used AI to analyze like all the the photos, uh obviously, and the videos and this the speech. And we could see that we did have a gender gap, which was probably a little bit bigger than we thought it would be. And that's concerning. Uh I think some of that we can't do much about. The Prime Minister in Sweden is a man. uh men start uh wars and shoot at each other every day. We have to report on that. When we report about uh you know a Premier League game there will be at least 22 MEM in that article So and so if you write 19 articles with female experts, it's still just one of those articles will skewer the balance a lot. So a lot of the that coverage we can't really do anything about. But then there are some parts of the content or the coverage that we can do things about. And I think that's important that we try to think on how we uh how we're doing in terms of representation because afterwards uh again it's a big newspaper and uh we strive to uh represent the whole uh country and that's something we don't do. We did score better when it comes to diversity. Also some some department like uh social media, for example, we had uh I think we had even more, a little bit more women than men, so that there we also we scored a little bit better. But in general it was quite depressing actually. And I think that there's a lot of reasons for that. But uh it's not gonna s be sold by itself. So we have to actively work with this. And I know that a lot of media houses have done uh BBC um and others have done have these kind of initiatives. And um yeah, that's something we're working on also now, like how we're gonna I mean now we did this, now and that's uh there's no reason of doing it if we don't take action. And we have actually used AI as well to try to try to solve the problem or uh coming uh closer to uh solving the problem. And so uh Emilia the she did um like a a GPT for female experts which that finds female experts which is pretty good because it's first it's we have our own lists with experts but it's we also go out online and look for them. And sometimes I think it works a little bit better than Google actually because sometimes you're not sure, maybe you don't know the exact title or role uh for the experts. That if you're writing about an issue, you're not sure like okay who would be an expert? Like what should I Google on? But if you since it's a GPT it and it uh uses generative AI, it will kind of understand the context. So uh it will uh it works pretty well actually. We also we built a simple bot that like scrapes the front page on any given moment and to See the gender balance and that bot is not always working uh perfectly. I think we had a picture of a or a photo of a a picture of a dinosaur and it said like one woman. So it's it's it's there's room for improvement. Maybe the tool was built by a man. But um AI is usually and rightfully accused of you know promoting uh and reinforcing bias and prejudice, but you can also use it to try to combat that. That's an interesting example. What AI tool are you using? I'm not sure actually w which one we're using for the the the very simple one we built uh on our ourselves but The other one again, I would uh highly strongly recommend others to do that. We used the Media Catch, I'm sure there are other uh companies around doing that, but it was very interesting to see that and also you know how what topics does men talk about or do men talk about and what do women talk about and it was it was very interesting. You've had so many different AI initiatives Since the AI hub previous to that as well, and now with the chatbot. What are like the key performance indicators basically of all of these initiatives that you focus on to define and see the impact of them and whether it's been a success or not. I mean obviously AI shouldn't be a goal in itself. Uh it's a tool to uh reach a goal which should be like a modern news experience. But I think when there's a new technology, or fairly new as well, uh at least, then maybe in the beginning just using it could be a goal in itself. And I think that that has been we haven't really settled that many goals. We had obviously the AI hub had golfs, but, or KPIs, but that was more like testing. And uh trying uh more quantity I would say. Like we should trust this amount of projects. I think that's and For in the beginning, we didn't really have the it was hard to measure. And also we we have been trying and talking about okay, is there a way we can measure productivity, like increased productivity, for example? And there are some departments at Afton Blood who are working with uh Not all the like auto-generated articles, but uh a version of it, I would say. And and they have tried to measure okay, how does that increase productivity? for example. But it's it's it's kind of hard. And uh again for the um for if you talk about the chat bottle for example which was a huge bet. How do we measure success there? Well, we have no idea how many how many questions we would get. So that was I think we set the goal after the first day. We're like, but yeah, let's set the goal for a hundred thousand questions. That was just something that we came up with. There we had other goals, and that was like to be the first uh media house in at least in northern Europe to release a chatbot, uh, to have like a big breakthrough. through AI me to engage a younger audience to present the journalism in a in a new way and uh the idea is how we to test something and then scale up. So I think that uh we didn't have any really like hard KPIs that's We measured the whole idea about the hub is experimenting. And although we did Put tracking on all the tools, for example, in the AI buffet, so we could see okay which tools are people using and which ones are they not using. And if they're using this tool a lot, maybe we could prioritize to get that into the CMS for example. But again, I think it's maybe a little bit uh early to set other types of goals. Or at least I haven't been able to come up with them yet. And so you have the goal to experiment and prototype a bunch of in projects within the AI hub. So how many did you all end up doing? A very big task for the AI hub has also been prioritizing because there's been so many ideas from the newsroom and they've been sitting out with the newsroom, but also like once a week we have had like a round table, we'd be sitting and people could come and we would just like try to solve different problems. So there is uh I think it's very hard to say, but we I think In terms of like the editorial tools, uh the AI Buffer probably consists about 25-30 of them. We did uh again, we did the the the chat bot and this big also the the whole uh when we analyzed ourselves that took quite a lot of work as well. We work on text-to-speech done a a lot of things with the audio as well. For example, when we we do an investigation and you want to anonymize a source, for example, but still keeps keep a voice instead of like pitching up the voice, which makes it very irritating to listen at you can use AI to generate an another voice instead. So it's it's hard to to say how many sh initiatives, but I think they've done tremendously good and I'm very proud of the their work so far. So I think also that's just collaborating. That's something we always want to do, right? Collaborating over the the different departments and uh that has also been very Heartwarming to see how uh they have a lot of fun. I think they're the happiest people in at Afton Blodd. Um when they they worked, they spent the whole you know election night working with um with the chat bot and replacing like putting in new data about the results so that the election bot could live uh a few days uh or like a week after as well you can chat about the the results And they've been working like all night and they said, okay, now it's time to uh take uh a day off because we we did work that night, and then they went uh to uh to uh to one of the colleagues and had a barbecue like the AI hub. So they spent even that then they spent the the time with them, you know, with the hub at their day off. So that's that's been incredibly nice to see as well. It seems like it's there's been a lot of innovation happening and You've learned a lot of lessons throughout this entire period of seeing how the AI help has been helpful. But for somebody who's been experimenting for the past year, I want to know how you've been actually just using AI in your own personal life. I'm not uh super interested in uh in new technology, but I use uh chatbots a lot. Uh I tried and it took a while. to get that behavior, but now whenever I'm gonna do basically anything, I start with brainstorming with a chatbot. And I think that's very good. I don't have a lot of money, but uh after um a few months ago I had the Chat GPT analyze like which pension funds I had put my money in. And that was pretty Good actually. Or my placements were bad. To use it. I could uh rearrange a little bit. And also my my girlfriend lives in Switzerland. My French is not very good, so I use it a lot to take you know, pictures of different signs and recipes and uh stuff and have uh chat GPT translated. That also saves a lot of time for me. Your personal translator and a financial advisor. Exactly. For your pension funds. Well, Marta, this has been Very insightful and exciting to hear about again all the innovation that's been happening at Shripstedt and how successful your election, but I'm excited to see more of these innovations happen at Afton Glade. Thank you so much for having me. Thank you, Martin. That was Martin Shorey, the deputy managing editor and associate publisher of Afton Bladet. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast. And sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab Spock grant. I'm Nikita Roy, and this is Newsroom Robots.