This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today are Runa Jutterberg and Lars Adrian Giski, two journalists leading AI-driven investigative journalism at iTromsel, a local newsroom in Norway that's at the forefront of AI innovation. Rune is the head of iTromso's Data Journalism Lab, where he's been developing AI-driven editorial solutions for 70 local newspapers in the Polaris Media Group since 2020. Lars is the head of AI at iTromso and led the development of Gen, an AI-powered system that helps journalists surface newsworthy stories from vast amounts of public data. Today, 36 newspapers across Norway use GIN to track documents from nearly half of all Norwegian municipalities. This is part one of a two-part episode where we explore iTromso's AI journey, how they began integrating AI into their newsroom, and built tools like Gin and other AI-powered research assistants. To enhance their investigative journalism. Rudy and Lars, welcome to Newsroom Robot. I am very excited to hear more about how you have been innovating with AI in local journalism in Norway today. Thanks a lot. Happy to be here. So I Rune, I know you very well because for the past year when you were part of the AI journalism lab at the end of the year. At the City University of New York, uh when I started leading it last year, I learned a lot about the innovative local journalism work that's been happening at iTromso and was so inspired by it. And I've been talking about it everywhere I go, so it only made sense. To have both of you here on the podcast to learn a lot about the work that has been happening. And from what I have heard and seen, there's been so much of impact, especially in the investigative journalism work that's been done. And just for context, I trom so is a small local newsroom. You're about a 25% team working in the Troms region in Norway. And owned by Polaris Media, which is one of the largest Scandinavian media houses. And so it's very inspiring to see the work that is being done in local journalism and the impact that it can have. And so I want to get into that entire AI journey. that's been happening and get into a lot of the AI products that you have been building. And we'll be doing I I would say you all are doing one of the most innovative works in local journalism. So I'm very excited to get into this entire journey that's been happening at iTromps. So I want to Start off first. Set the picture for us, the context, Rune. Like what has it been like, the AI journey? When did you guys first start off with adopting AI and how has that journey been so far? Uh we started uh with uh low, low low hanging fruits. Okay that was very easy to get our hands on and that we could very efficiently get the product out and show our editor that this is actually working and we it's going to have an impact. It's going to produce good better journalism. So that's where we started. So the first thing we did was to make a small, very efficient, very low cost Property bot. Okay? It just took all the property transactions every night and uh we built two services on top of that. One was an alar alert system that alerted the journalist. If there were some property transactions with newsworthy content, they would have an alert. Okay. Nothing more. Very easy. And we produce a lot of news stories with the service. So that was the first thing. And we showed that to the head of the of the company group. in 2021. And uh and he asked us, can you do this for the rest of the group? For all the 70 newspapers? And we said yes, of course. Um if we can give some money, uh some funding. So that that was the start of it. And then we in 2022 And this this uh this is still working, it's still running, and it's it's giving us uh every week several news stories. But then in 2022 we had uh a new project called the Laila, L-A-I-La, Laila Which is a sort of a cobot, it's a research assistant that will help a journalist find news in large amount of data. So that was we started in 2022 and we got um some funding from the Innovation Research Council. So then we started to apply AI on different data. So the way we started was that we started using AIs as a sort of a a part of our data-driven journalism. We have uh in our newspaper we have a data journalism unit. So for us it's it's It's not like AI is something completely new. We think of AI as a sort of a continuation of the data-driven journalism we've already doing. So then we started using AI in several projects. One was to look into uh fish. Okay. Because fish is um very very important in northern part of Norway. It's the it's the second largest industry after oil. And it's a lot of fish activities that are um non sustainable. So what we did was that we downloaded five million fish transactions for the last twenty years and we put it into a database and we used AI for look to look for patterns and animalies. Because AI is really good at looking at patterns and animalies. And in that way we were able to in fact find we detected Some red flags, we were a red flag system for non-sustainable activities, and then we were able to in fact detect a company that we wanted to investigate And they investigated this company and just before we're going to to public the article the police and the Coast Guard raided the company and have this big big Russia. And we were all the only the only newspaper that were able to film the the Russia because we have already done to use the red flag to detect this company. So it showed that this way of using AI to search for animalis and pattern is really a good way of using AI on large datasets. To find to find the needle in the haystack. And what's really cool about that story, like when they raided that place, all we knew, like all the police published was a short little notification in their put uh notification service saying there is an ongoing raid at a fisheries plant in northern norway. That was all we had. But we knew exactly where to go. So we were there ten minutes after uh the police and were able to like film it, do interviews. Nobody had access like we did Because of that system that we built. And so this was the property bot and so the the property bot and then Lila, the research assistant, that's what helped you in this investigation for the fisheries Well, not exactly. Like we had we had the property bot, which was kinda what birthed Lila, and from Lila we went on to what's now called the fisheries database, which is a separate system. Which is the one that we used for this kind of investigation. Yeah. Okay, so can we go back to Lila for a second? What does Lila exactly do? Lila is um That is an experiment, okay? Uh it's a sort of uh looking into how you can digitalize the workflow workflow. How can you use AI in every step of the news production to um strengthen journalism and also to if you combine sources Because that that's where the magic happens and is when you combine sources you will have new information that this that can give you yeah information that you didn't know about before Okay, it it will give you the exclusive stories that will make a a difference for our newspaper is is is gonna be making better journalism and we're also giving Our audience, our community, much needed information that they didn't know about before. So it it it helped us to have a more important position in our local society So I think really AI if you use it right, I think AI is going to help the local uh um newspapers. to strengthen their position in the local community. So what we do is that we use AI both in t look into what kind of sources should we download which has important information to the people and the journalists and then we use it to analyze to sort of automate some of the analysis of the data and then they make alert systems to the journalists. So the journalists will get alerts of finding needle in the haystacks, getting some sort of um suggestions of what kind of news storage they should make. And then they can we have then made um a lot of this data searchable. So the to the journalists can get alerts and then the journalists can search back into the database and and verify. the information also look for other information. And then they will also get help to write the story and publish it. So it's a sort of we we use AI in the whole news production. The That's the sort of the idea behind it, behind Lina. And what we've seen is that like 80% of the time a journalist spends on the story is spent on initial research, right? like actually finding the story. So anything we can do to kinda make that process quicker is very helpful. And that's what Lila is all about. And I think uh it started with uh financial data, like yearly reports um annual reports, um or very download the um a lot of historical annual reports and then we can download the new ones and then we can um have um if you see that if it's significant changes the journalists will get an alert. So it's we're all looking for news. So so Larel has been a a project where we have looked into how can How can we try to digitalize more of what is now mostly annual no analog analog research? The journalist is the is the last some sort of um carpenter, okay? It's like a analogue carpenter that they're working but it traditionally. It's many good things to say about that, but I really believe that it's possible to incre to to strengthen, improve the research by getting an AI system to help you dig through waste amounts of data and find the good s good stories. The most important stories and do the analysis that very many local journalists don't have the time to do, or maybe even the knowledge to do. And I think that's what's so interesting about the way you all have been using AI, Ruene. The You like you are a data editor, so you have the understanding, the editorial knowledge of what it takes, what you're looking for, the patterns that you're looking for, and then you're getting an AI system. to be able to find those patterns out of data and the way you said digitizing the analog system of how you had to find data putting that in a database so you can search through, get AI to analyze all of that. And then Lars, as the head of AI for you, how have you been Working with the editorial teams I want to understand right now to understand deeper what their pain points are. And then you have been working on so many interesting products as a result of that collaboration with editorial. Yeah. So my background is editorial. I have 10 years experience as an investigative data journalist as well as a uh desk editor before I kind of transitioned or pivoted to development and product. Management. So that's helped a lot. Because when me and Rina started working together, I it was as journalists like colleagues on these investigative projects. So like it it was quite easy once I started working more on the other side of or other end of things, it was very easy to kind of bring that experience into the AI work and build on it. And we we we're a small team, the data desk is five people. So we work quite closely together. Like There's not much separation between developer and journalist in this group. And the information flows very freely. It's really nice because you get a very good understanding of the user needs. Like what do the journalists want? What are our kinda goals for different projects? And how can we kind of try to apply AI to solve these problems? And then also I want to go back to a meeting that you all had had, a design meeting with editorial and the tech team together that led to the development of a whole data journalism interface that you all created for gathering news and a tool that I've spoken a lot about and that got recognized by a lot of associations as well for the work that it was doing to impact and again finding information, getting helping your journalists find the stories, the newsworthy things that they need to go after quicker. So can you walk us through like just how that product was conceived and how does it help your journalists today? You know, all our development is is headed by editors. And uh so it was the editor-in-chief that came to me and said, Okay, we have to improve on this speed. Okay. So all the all the tools you made so far are domain specific. Okay, they are experts on one domain because we think that's the best way of using AI to ensure that it's we are reducing the risk of hallucination. And we are able to train the um AI expert on to be expert in one domain and then it will be more accurate on the alerts it's going to send to the journalists. So that's the way we are done it. Okay, I know it's a lot of other media companies that are sort of using genitive AI in the the latest part on this production where they will help a journalist to improve uh or uh make a more efficient article, okay. But we then you have to be extremely accurate. It has you can't have It can't fade, okay? Um to assistance we have made because it's still a risk of hallucination. So the systems we have made is is trying to reduce the risk of destination by to making them domain specific and then they have always a a journalist in the loop. Give me an example when you say domain specific. How specific do you make these tools? So like specifically for fisheries, specifically for earnings reports, and then is it all the way Creating and helping them with the finding the points that journalists can follow up or even giving them analysis as well? It's all. It's going to find the it's going to get that data, analyze it send alerts with summaries that find the newsworthy information which the journalists can use them. So we started then I asked um the two senior journalists of the on that domain to help me understand what kind of news stories are we looking for? What what is a news story in that beat And a beat was urban development. So what we did was we we have a lot of feelers out when it comes to AI. Like we can't do everything alone. We're a small team. We need collaborators or strategic partners. So we're part of a lot of like media hubs, networks, that kind of thing. And we came into contact with IBM, which was really excited about the idea of like gaining experience within the publishing industry. Because it didn't really have a present. presence there at all, at least not in Nordics. So they offered to send few of their expert lab AI engineers up to Tromsta. along with a designer and sit down and like kinda hash out how can this product be made. Like as part of a co-creation process with people from our side and experts from their side. That's the workshop Aruna was talking about, which was incredibly fruitful. Like over two days time, we kind of scoped out the entire solution, figured out how we were gonna do this. And got work and we did it like a month later we had uh had a working prototype. Talk me through what that scoping uh looked like for you guys over the two days. So it's all about bringing in like the expert the domain experts from our newsroom. Like Runa mentioned we have two people who are very good at urban development journalism. But when they're out sick or on vacation, we're bare. Like we we lose a lot of the coverage that we have and that's the problem, right? Especially for a local newsroom. We have to be best at that. otherwise people will start reading our competitor. Like we're one of two papers in Tromsa. Other one is twice our size. We have to work very quickly. We have to work very fast and we have delivered just as good. And we can't do that when they're up. So we needed a system like this. And we needed to understand how they work and what their main kind of uh roadblocks were in the processes. Like because when we apply AI, we don't just want to apply AI for the sake of applying AI. We want to make the work better, like increase the quality of our journalism. as well as make the work quicker. So that was like essential to us to kind of understand like how do they work and what's keeping them from work working faster and delivering better journalism. That's what we're gonna spend time on. So we understand that we we have to build a tool that will improve the journalists' work and that they are going to use. You could say something about Local journalists. They are super efficient news gathering experts. Okay. They are working so incredibly fast to understand this and this information is important, this is not. Okay. So to to build a tool that could really make that their work even more efficient then it has to be really good. That's why this workshop was so important because Then the journalists, the look journalists, they were sort of telling this is what we need. And then they would say this is the end product. we need it should like look like this. Vi är going to use it in den part av the production process. Så det är tin. Vi med this. The end product is for journalists and the end user is for the journalist and the journalists is also for people that are sort of telling us what to produce. And I think you it highlighted an important point over there. The end product was for journalists. The users were going to be journalists. And so you really brought them into that to understand what exactly their process looks like, where could this tool help them? And the most important question, what would it take for them to start using this tool? Like at what level of Accuracy, what did they want that they would use this tool? Because otherwise you had the experience of building out a tool that only you wanted, nobody else was able to use it. And so then Lars, once you had that MVP, that prototype ready, what did that next phase look like with the journalists getting them to adopt it. I just want to take you back one step back to the workshop to what we s found out, what became very clear as we were hashing through these problems. was that the main pain point for the journalists were the municipal web portals they had to access to go through the municipal archives, find the stories. That's a main source of stories. uh fifty percent of all correspondence between municipalities in Norway and the inhabitants of Norway is about urban development or planning and zoning. So we had access to tons of correspondence. We had access to plans Illegality follow-ups, everything. This is all PDFs that are publicly available on federal day. Publicly available, but uh UI is a mess. Like there's no information about the contents of each entry. You have only metadata to go on. It's like a short title. It's up to whoever sends the document to title it. So it could be like Just referencing project. That could be a title. And you have to go through four or five hundred of these every day to find the properly newsworthy items. Four to five hundred of these documents. A journalist would have to go through them. Okay. Yeah. Manually. If if we're gonna be thorough about it. And this makes it like mega error prone, right? People are gonna not check it all, miss out on stories, stuff like that. So what we saw was that okay, this is the main problem. What the journalist wants is a better interface. A much better interface for the work they're doing. So that's what we wanted to build, like an AI-empowered user interface that lets them do that work in a fraction of the time they would otherwise, which is what we built also. That's the MVP. So that kind of to make it like clear to whoever's listening that this is what we built. So can you describe what exactly they go and see now when how are they interacting with that platform? It's built on the same kind of design principles. It's like you come in and you see a list of documents, like you would at a municipality. But instead of just having metadata to go on, first of all it's ranked. Like we model the newsworthiness of each document on a scale from zero to one. where one is like you should definitely check out this document. It's probably likely has some very newsworthy contents within it. And the list is ranked, so you have the most newsworthy items at the top every day or continuously as new documents come in. You have a summary of the document and you have a preview of the document. So you can see like, is it a PDF? Is it an email? Is it a map? Is it a huge planning document? And we also do entity extraction. So you can see kind of the actors involved within this kinda the document and its case history. So that's a ton of information gained very efficiently and makes it super quick to go through it instead of having to manually sift through hundreds of documents, you can check out the top five and then be almost a hundred percent sure that the rest is not relevant to us. And what's the impact it's had for journalists? The impact is like it's gone from spending an hour to an hour and a half sitting and manually doing this work to spending five minutes doing it. That's a huge timesaver. But we're also we've also built a notification system on top of it. So we send out alerts in Slack now that are personalized. Like you can subscribe to the entities you're interested in, to the rel like anything above a rating of 0. 9 you want, you'll get it. So so you have like every day when you come to work, you have the day stories ready for you. You just have to start calling sources, right? That's a huge time saver instead of starting after lunch and trying to get a hold of people in the businesses that you're trying to call or the municipality. So that's a huge like efficiency gain. it makes production much smoother when it comes to the speed. But on the other side of things, it's also lowered the threshold for new journalists to kinda engage with this. I said we had two journalists that were experts at this, but they were also the only ones writing about this. Because it's kinda it's kinda uh urban development and zoning and planning, municipal stuff, it's not kinda easy to access as a fresh journalist straight out of school. It takes a while to kind of like get the gut feeling for what's newsworthy, what's a good story, how do I solve this story. But what we saw with Jin once the MVP was out, like we rolled it out. a month after the first workshop in April, just as summer vacation was starting in Norway. And we had two summer interns that were fresh out of journalism school working for us. And within the first week they delivered five uh cover stories based on the system. Wow, that's incredible. Well we had two we had two experts that were experts at urban development, zoning and planning. But when they're gone from work, that's a huge problem. Like we lose out on that coverage because we have no one who has the same kind of experience as they do. But with this system, we saw that fresh journalists straight out of journalism school was able to pick up news stories that were highly relevant. And within the first week of the MVP, we saw that they were able to deliver five cover stories. Based on on the gin system. That was kinda an eye-opener for me at least. Like this definitely has value. Like it it wasn't MVP. We were meant to kinda evaluate the value of this product. That became very, very obvious in that first week. I think was uh what's really fun is that uh because this is um you know this documents It's all the documents uh regarding your house in Norway and eighty percent of Norwegians own their own house. So that's why it's so important for us as a local newspaper to to be best on this subject, okay? But there's a lot of technical details. It will take you um a while to understand the beat. So what we have done with Jin is uh sort of the knowledge that the senior journalist have on their bit. It's somewhere transferred into the system. Okay? So now fresh journalists will understand, will learn. From the ranking of the documents, the algorithm is finding the rank the documents which have the most newsworthy content. So they the sort of the knowledge from the journalists, the senior journalist is put inside the system so new journalists can learn from the old journalists, even if they have never met each other before. That's so cool because you all have put in the the domain expertise, the experience, codified all of that that a journalist who's been specialized in this beat was able to help you in developing this tool, make it better. And so it's lowered the threshold for newer journalists as well to help enter this speed, support. So you're continuing to do the work that you have always been doing. And I I think How we did it is pretty interesting because what we did ended up doing is not modeling newsworthiness as such. Because that can be impacted by a thousand different factors, right? Like what makes the story newsworthy is highly, highly contextual. What we ended up doing instead is evaluating the or modeling the expertise of the domain experts within our newsroom. So we told we asked them to evaluate a huge data set of public documents, giving it a thumbs down or a thumbs up. Is it newsworthy or is it not? Because they have that expertise. It's become a gut feeling, right? They built that judgment over time. So that's our model. It's pretty cool. It's a gut feeling system. And then then because the of the thumbs up and thumbs down, that way the model's able to analyze the patterns from all of the thumbs up. basically to see what was and so you're not really telling it look for this particular topic, look for that. You're trying to model it on that gut feeling that your journalists are having regarding your expert journalists on that. Yeah, exactly. We capture a ton of stuff we wouldn't otherwise capture with the system. And what we also saw pretty quickly, we tr we didn't fully trust the system at first. So we wanted to give it a guardrails. We wanted to give it like libraries of entities that were interesting to us, that we wanted it to rate high. Turned out that was a very poor approach because the system was much better at capturing these entities than we were. Because it became obvious in the training data. So we we dropped that pretty quickly. I made long lists of all the entries it should look uh look for, but in the end uh the system uh it didn't use it. It relied on the gut feeling that it was able to do a much better job by just extracting patterns from there. And so, I mean, this is a highly successful product. Were there any failures down the road? Like it seems like everything was great. Yeah, but uh th this product has been like one success after the other. There hasn't been like huge roadblocks But there has been one problem that's shows up from time to time and that has become like kind of the crutch of Gen, and that's the access to data. Because in Tromsa, we're super happy to have a municipality that's all about transparency. They publish, they have the resources to publish all their zoning and planning documents and all their cor public correspondence online and full text. A lot of the small municipalities don't have those resources. Sixty percent of municipalities in Norway publish all all this data that we need openly. But that leaves 40% that don't. And when we were scaling up this, because when we saw that this had huge value, we immediately went to Polaris, our owner, and said, hey, look at this system. It's great. We want to scale it up to all the newspapers in Polaris. And we started doing like once we started that work, they were super eager, they saw the potential in it and decided to invest in it and productionize the solution. So uh so we started scaling it up. In August that year, like three months later, after the first work draw. And when we started charting data availability, because I was I was naive. I thought that every municipality would follow the same standards as Tromsa. They did not. There was a plethora of different systems and web portals, different data providers, and 40% didn't publish at all. So that was that that's the main issue. It's not like a technical issue, it's on the provider side of things, like the data provider side of things. That's a huge road roadblock because that means that Sure, we could scale this system up to 35 newsrooms in Polaris, which we did, but that leaves around 30 newspapers without access to the system, because they're covering municipalities that don't have the same kind of access that the others do. So that's limited the ability of this tool right now to expand to more municipalities. Yeah, we we're covering 130 municipalities in Norway right now. which is one third of the municipalities in the Indonesian, and it covers about slightly over half of the newsrooms in Polaris. And their coverage areas. But then there are newsrooms that simply don't have the data we need to use this tool successfully. But what we saw, which is pretty cool, is that this project, not the tool itself, but the project led to more transparent or more transparent transparency in Norway. Because what happened was that four municipalities decided to start publishing openly. Because they saw the value of the tool. Once we explain like this will not only make our journalism quicker, it will also increase coverage of a very important area and increase public participation. in these kind of processes, you know, like urban development, how is my home changing? They were on board. And that dialogue is still ongoing with a lot of the municipalities in Norway. So we hope to have even more on board as we go on with the gin solution. And so this has been a highly successful product, Gin. And since then, y'all have been working on a lot more agentic AI products for investigative journalism. I want to hear a lot more about that. What have you been up to after Jen? What were the insights that y'all started to then think about and look for? What's the next product you would be building out? We have some sort of I idea that um That we would like to be some sort of an AI research assistant. The journalists should have each journalist should have their own personal AI research assistants that are customized to their needs. And so when you come to work every morning you will get a notice, maybe on your cell phone or something, your eyeglasses. And uh it will tell you, okay, you're working in this newspaper, you're serving this community with these specific needs. So maybe you should look into this news stories today. That's a sort of a idea we have been working on now for some years. Okay. So the next step was to to start working with the assistants. And then uh they are domain specific assistance. So they it's a rank. We started in March April last year. So that was my projekt in your Air Journalism lab to build such personal. assistance, domain-specific assistance. And the first first user case was it was a big scandal at um university or hospital in in our city, in Trumsey, which is also the university hospital for the Nordic part of Norway. We had done a story a year before about understaffing that could put patients life at risk. Yeah, so I can I can jump in there just to preface how this came about. It was a really sad story. A c former colleague of ours lost their baby in childbirth. During a very intensive month at uh the maternity ward, which is June and July. Like it was in July, I believe When there a lot of people are on vacation, they're understaffed and they have interns or be caught. They have people coming in from Germany, for example, working at the hospital for a few weeks just to cover for the people on vacation. So turned out they were woefully understaffed and they couldn't really provide the necessary service to the people coming in then. Delivering. That was a sorry in of its own, but it really like kinda highlighted an issue at the hospital. So we started to look into is this systemic? Is this uh is it is it just an incident? Or is it a um or a systemic failure? Can understaffing have life threatening consequences for the patients? That was the main question. Not only on this department, but on other departments at the hospital. So in in um 2024 we made a big FOIA request, really large, getting hands on all documents. In Norway it's like you can you have a system you can you will it's a sort of a official fire request web portal So you could search for every department in Norway for the specific words in the title and find these documents and then you can say and send them for your request. It's an amazing system, but you only see the title. So we searched for all the word the in the title was serious incidents at this hospital that was reported to the state authorities. That was a lot of uh dokumentation from the last research for the last five years. It was so much documents that when I got it in the middle of July it was like I can't read it all It's too much. I can't read it all. So we put it into a vector database and we connected it to a rag system. And then I searched for the most So this is basically a vector database and a rag system. You put it to an in a way in which you can like a chat bot. So you created a personalized interface where you can chat with all of these documents instead of having to read through them. Yeah. And then we took to make the system instruction. So how should how would we like the large language model to go through? analyze these documents. We took the in Norway we have in the health department you have some specific people that are going to investigate flaws in the health system. And there they have an instruction manual, how they're going to work, what is looking at. how should they make such analysis? So we took their system instruction and put it as a system instruction in the RAG system, okay? As a system prompt. So then they made an expert, a health investigative expert. to investigate these health documents. And that's why we then I could have a very easy prompt. Just please give me an overview of the four five most life-threatening situation or most severe consequences for these patients. And then we discovered the X-ray X-ray crisis at the university. It was We wrote that story. It showed that um at least five people are dead. It has had severe consequences. It's been um a doctor that has been He's not working at the at the hospital, but he has been employed as a sort of freelancer, okay? And he didn't check. What vi followed in the sa in the dokuments that was that he hadn't checked. He hadn't used enough time to check the X-ray pictures. Okay, I just use some seconds and this has been going on for many many years. So this system this assistant helped us find the needle in the in the haystack To do that work manually in investigation would take two, three journalists a lot of time, many, many weeks. And we were able to do that to find the most severe consequences, people had died of cancer, people had been um treated by this um XY uh doctor, and he has done a lot of of wrongdoing. We were able to find that in detect the most important documents in just some seconds. It's just like and as an okay I've been working as a journalist for thirty years and and uh as an investigative journalist for 25 years. So it for me it was like a wow what a super important assistance. It was also um a good experience to see that um it really it was a very low risk of hallucination. But uh the way we did the the system prompt and the prompting was important to reduce the risk of hallucination. We saw that we tried to sort of document The way we did made assistance in the beginning. Because we saw that for instance we had one junior developer, an excellent guy, 21 years old, okay, making some of the assistance. But he is a twenty-one year old okay, he is excellent developer, but he has not that much knowledge about investigative journalism, of course. So he did the prompting in a totally different way than I did. And then we had the a very different output. So we saw that It's extreme but some of his uh ideas of how to prompt was really great. So that's why I think it's so important that you have a developer and a journalist working together. when you're making such um assistance, both when you do the make the you know when you import the documents because we discovered that a lot of the documents was PDF pictures. They were not able to to upload. So we made a little OCR assistant that we're going to just uh get the text also the documents. of these systems. That's one of the keys with working with large language models is also getting them, prompting them right. But it's not just the developer that has to be able to prompt it. You have to embed the expertise from editorial. And so that's what that's what you highlighted the 21-year-old developer was really great at maybe the prompting techniques that need to be implemented, but then the editorial team, you have the insights of these years of experience of what you're looking for. And so both of them came together and then that's what led to a very interesting and more successful tool than if it was just either one going by themselves. Definitely. I think like we as journalists are ideally placed in today's kind of Gen I gen AI sphere because Nobody else is as capable of asking the right questions in a methodical way. I completely agree with you. And verify the answers. And be able to very easily detect okay this is a hallucination because it's this information here is not part of the document because we are very good at at verifying outputs. So how were you checking for the hallucinations and seeing if there were issues? Were you able to go back and trace every single source document as well? This project was also kind of an experiment. Like how what are the limitations of this technology? How can we apply it in the best possible way? So the first assistance we made in the OpenAI platform, they had some limitation. Like You can get sources, it does that for you, but it's not very accurate, and it can hallucinate sources, which is pretty bad. When you're trying to fact check. It it just it's a time consuming process. And of course fact checking is essential to what we're doing. We're not just trusting the AI set then we have to go back and like check that is this actually in the source documentation. Anything LM was slightly better. We still had one problem, which was aggregation tasks. Like create a timeline of all the important events within this corpus of documents. It can't do that because of the context limit. than how querying a vector database works. You simply can't like iteratively check every document and pull out the most essential information. So you need kind of a mix of systems. Rag is really powerful on its own, but for journalistic purposes, it needs kind of a support system. which is more of an iterative approach, an agentic approach, or traditional databases deep linked to the vectors. So you can actually see like Where did this get this information? And we have that today. Like we have a system that side-by-side view with the chat where you get the it pulls out the up the original documentation, highlights where it gets its information. Makes fact-tracking super fast. I just want to add that um the last six months I've really seen the limitation also of a rag system. You have to be aware of it as a journalist. that uh it's not going to answer every question like especially if you're going to ask okay I would let's say I'm prompting please show me this 300, 500 documents, all documents that are have these words or this information inside. It's not going to answer that question. It will find many list of documents, but not all. Because that's how a RAC system operates. It's not a useful database, okay? So for us it's been that important firstly to have an overview of the documents and we We um when we did the fire request we also made a list of the metadame uh metadata. And that's very important that you have you have an overview of the metadata for each document. When we had that we uh our head developer he combined some a Python script. Okay, so he he turned the the PDF documents into JSON and then so to make a timeline he Yeah, I made a system that they were were able to force, have a force sort of a forced prompting that we could make a timeline with all, from with the information from every document. So it was we had to make a combination to to be able to make time laps, for instance. It was like tools to call on, right? Like, okay, this is an aggregation task. We need to batch all this and send it to OpenAI server and get back summaries or timeline points for each and every document. Then you can make timeless because that's uh you know, we started to work together with a Swedish uh newspaper, Gotteboyg Posten, which is the maybe the best investigative newspaper in Sweden about this news story. And the head of the of the investigative unit there, Hans, which is okay they have won all awards in Sweden for the best investigative stories in the last five years. So they are incredibly good. And the first thing asked me was, okay Runi you have to send me the timeline. And we were struggling making the timeline because you know it was it didn't work. So uh it took us a long time to be able to do that. But when we were able to do it, that was really, really great. So you have to be open-minded on how to mix different ways of working to get a good result. But I I think that's the power of Gen AI right now. It's great on its own, but it really trends when you combine it with other kind of s uh kinds of systems And traditional machine learning. That's when you get power out of it. For journalism at least. Be blind, don't d think about okay, uh a large language model, that's the only thing. Okay. I think it's too many news uh companies that I just looking at that solution but you know gin that we make that made that rush was um making there we use a combination of several kind of AI systems models to make it and and that's proved the accuracy of the findings. So I think it's very important to be open-minded. Don't be blind on one one solution, one model. I think it's all about combining complementary methods. Like be they gen AI or machine learning or traditional just if and then coding, once you start like seeing how they can complement each other and building systems that integrate all of these approaches, that's when you get Something really useful. Exactly. I think it's not each system or each type of technique on its own. The power right now is that large language models, generative AI has added yet another technique to what we were already doing, and now we can do a lot more. and making these systems even more powerful. And that's what you have been able to see. And that's where it's a huge win for journalism because Journalism is all about text and data and trying to find patterns and numbers. And now we're able to do that with this new technology that's helping us. One step further. That was the first part of my conversation with Runa Yitterberg and Lars Adrian Gieski, the journalists leading AI-driven investigative work at iTromso. Tune in to our next episode. To hear how your team is building the foundation for an AI Agentic newsroom and what that means for the future of local journalism. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy, and this is Newsroom Robots.