This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Kaspar Linsgau. He's the head of AI at the JP Politikens Media Group in Denmark and has been working on developing and implementing effective AI systems for news. Since 2020. He's also a member of the AI Advisory Board for WAN IFRA, the World Association of News Publishers, and co-leads major industry initiatives like the Nordic AI Journalism Network. In this episode, Casper discusses one of the most comprehensive AI initiatives in journalism, the Platform Intelligence News Project. He shares how his team built Magna, an AI-powered editorial assistant, and we explored the evolution of AI in news, the challenges of creating scalable AI-driven infrastructure. and what it takes to align AI with journalistic values. Hi Casper. Welcome to Newsroom Robots. So great to have you here today. Thank you. Thank you, Nikki. So happy to be here. I've been looking forward to this. Yes, me too, Casper. I have been following your work for a really long time at the JP Politicans Media Group. You've really been at the helm of some really interesting work that has been happening and one of the key things I want to really get into today is the Platform Intelligence and News Project. the PIN project as we've been saying talking about it. It's this multi-year initiative that I think is really one of the most comprehensive understandings about integrating AI in journalism and where we're headed towards. So we have a lot of that to go through today. But before we get into all of those details, can you give us a quick overview of the JP Politicans Media Group and exactly how AI is what that AI story and journey has been like so far. Sure, yes, yes. So first and brief about uh about our media group for the people who might not know us. Uh we are legacy news publishers, so for the past hundred and fifty years or so uh we've been publishing these uh three national titles, Extrabladet, Politik and Unit Boston. Used to be newspapers, now they're a lot a lot more, right? But in the past ten years or so we've been adding more brands. So now we also operate a number of niche business to business brands and a number of other sort of niche focused sports brands, stuff like that. All in news and um centered on Denmark, but now also in Sweden, Norway, Germany, a little bit in England, stuff like that. Yeah. That's really it, right? And uh I guess that we're uh we're probably the biggest news publisher in Denmark, but we have a number of of also sort of strong competitors uh in our local market here. In terms of AI, so uh well uh we've we've gone through different phases really right so our journey started uh really uh back in 2019 or so So we're always sort of monitoring tech trends to see when might they become relevant to us. And uh back in twenty nineteen we uh we looked at AI and we said uh well something is going on here. It's not really ready yet But uh it looks like at the pace it's developing, this will become relevant to us and will begin to mature within sort of a medium term time frame, two, three years or so. That was back in twenty nineteen. So so back then we thought uh now might be the time to begin acting. But we did it in a different way than we usually do because it is different for us to invest in stuff that we think will mature in a couple of years and not be ready ready yet. And also at the time uh it wasn't really possible to get access to the competencies union needed to to build begin to experiment and build these systems. But So the way we approached it was that we made some small investments ourselves. Then we talked to universities about whether they wanted to collaborate with us on this, and uh they wanted to. Then we applied for a lot of money money from uh Innovation Fund Denmark, which is sort of this state state-owned fund that uh helps companies innovate. And we were fortunate that they wanted to support us and that gave us a frame for for doing a bigger project with universities So really we started out in 2020 doing AI as applied research in a few limited domains where we thought this would be relevant in a two, three year time frame. And that was uh recommended systems, it was uh language models and stuff based on that, and it was metadata. And then really sort of the rest is history. We can dig into what the PIN project is and all this, but from twenty twenty to twenty twenty four, the PIN project was the main framework around our efforts. And we began increasingly investing more from the company side on sort of rolling up the systems we developed on PIN, mainly at Extablard at the time. Then PIN concluded in uh in early 2024, mid-2024 or so And uh fortunately at the time AI was sort of mature enough for more applied focus. So there we transitioned the PIN team into a centralized or shared shared AI unit. that now serves the entire group, so all the brands in the group. And we're still doing some applied research, but we're a lot more focused now on productionizing and rolling out and implementing and scaling the systems we already built on the pin play. Can you give us uh an in-depth overview of like just the pin project and what came out of those insights there? So essentially the Penn Project uh it was aimed at uh creating value for news by creating a more relevant engaging and informing news experience. with these technologies that we thought would be relevant in a medium-term timeframe. So To do that, we collaborated with two technical universities on like hardcore development and experimentation with algorithms And with two social science departments at universities to make sure that we also thought about the social implications of this, the ethics, also the business strategy associ associated with it. So we thought to try to create a framework around it that was sort of 360, you can say Then with uh Exterblad Java Boutin's Media Group as the uh as the place that everything flowed through. So we defined the problems, we tested the solutions, made them ready for adoption. That was really the method there. And then what we developed there was uh well a number of of really well-tested recommender systems that uh we think work really well for news and are also sort of thoroughly tested for their impact on the news flow It was a number of uh language models or NLP models that uh help us produce metadata about our news stories. And then it was uh out of the pin project came sort of the beta version of what is now our uh magna our suite of generated editorial tools that we've now rolled out to all news brands across the entire group. So really all started with PIN. Pin in the early days was applied applied research. So the midway through it began turning really more applied and now it's mainly applied, the stuff we do based on PIN. And so PIN was that RD project really to understand how AI can be in news. And I wanna get into Magna because I think that was one of the key outputs. And when I was at the newsroom back in September last year, I met a bunch of your colleagues and I saw that in action and how they were talking about it. So I I was really impressed by the AI tool. So I want to get into that. Can you break down what exactly Magna does now and how is it being used in the newsroom? So uh really Magnes, two things. It's a platform for safe deployment and productionization of generative AI, and then it's a user interface for the journalists. for the number of tools they can use. Let's begin with it with the sort of what they can use it for. So Magna now contains uh well firstly sort of an open chat option where where you can basically just use a language model freely as you would Chat GPT basically, but in a safe environment. And is that all of the AI models that are available or how do you choose which AI models? Yeah, so we make a number of models available inside MacNap so that you can sort of choose depending on your purpose. But right now we're really sort of mainly tied in those to the opening. I DPT um series of models, even though we we think we're going to be expanding that, but uh that's definitely been enough for us at the time to to get started. I should add maybe that then on top of the basic chat option, we have uh all these sort of sort of more focused tools where journalists don't need to be prompting. They can uh carry out a number of predefined tasks where we did extensive pumping work underneath it. It just really just works for them when they push a button. And there's a number of different tools there now that I rolled out to everyone that they can use use in that way. And all these tools are sort of made in a way where it's adapted to the individual news brand. So if you put something into Magna at Extrabladed, one of our news brands it will come up with up with an answer or text that's suitable for extrabladet. If you put the same thing into into MacMat Politiken, it will come up with a very different text that's uh suited more suited for Politiken. And so is that just the voice or also based on the context and research and the reporting that has been done previously? Yeah, both really. So it does depend on the on the particular tool. But uh but generally if you want to do one some of the more advanced things in Magna, like uh produce an article that summarizes the coverage we did of this case. across multiple then it will be if you're at at Poltiken it will be uh basing that summary or case overview on all the Polticken wrote about the case, why one of those rack solutions we can get into what that means if you want to But then also the way it writes the story is uh is based on uh politik and style and tone of voice and also basically just their writing guide for the way they write numbers, the way they write certain rewards and all this stuff. So it's adapted in in those two ways you can say both the input And the output is adapted through various means. When I heard about Magna and looked at it, what I often liken it to is you've created like the newsroom's AI brain. Basically, it knows everything, each reporting that has been done for all of the newsrooms, it knows the voice, the style, but how was that technical journey for you to get it to do it at that level for all of these different types of newsrooms? I think Magna can develop into becoming that brain. At this point it has some some of that, but not that much of that. But um so so we've been doing uh generative generative AI well basically since 2020, right? So it's been a longer journey for us there In the beginning we we started doing, well, experimenting with generative AI based on machine learning, but more rule-based stuff, because we thought that that'd be a middle stage here where you had to do hyper solutions. to make sure that uh you had dynovative AI in there and then you had some rules to correct them whenever they were wrong. But that changed fast, right? So we began experimenting with innovative AI when when TBT3 came out sort of more focused. That was like eight, ten months or so before ChatDPT. There we did uh basic summaries, like the classic tasks that we know the generative generative AI is really good at and the old versions were good at also. Then ChatGPT came out, and that was also a bit of a revolution for us. We were already doing generative AI, but what changed with ChatGPT was uh the ability to instruct the model. to sort of steer the model in a certain direction. That allowed us to do things that were a lot more ambitious and specific and usable, really, right? But we thought that the biggest challenge we expected to happen when we started was uh hallucinations and factuality, right? Because as a news organization, one of our core value for all our news brands is that uh we really don't like those factual mistakes, right? We should be trustworthy and we shouldn't be making those mistakes. And uh and based on uh all the stuff we saw with GPT two, it was pretty clear that uh that uh GPT two certainly wasn't ready for for any type of prime time on that, right? So we started out really building a rack solution, an early one, and then testing it thoroughly for fac for hallucinations and factuality mistakes. We did that from summer twenty twenty three and onwards, but uh really to my surprise Now that's pretty standard, I think, to know, but to my surprise at the time, when we prompted it directly and used it in a rack setup, it really so rarely made those factuality mistakes. So we found out that uh you still need to read through it because it can sometimes make those damn mistakes in really subtle ways, but it really wasn't the biggest challenge. Well that was the first leg technically of our journey, trying to built early versions prototypes, testing it thoroughly in big in the beginning for factuality, but only to figure out that really that was the wrong focus for us. Then we transitioned into uh having that sort of settled, into do to saying, okay, it's ready now, we should begin investing more and doing more on this, without worrying that much about factuality So then we s we saw that the challenge was that uh when you just used the basic models, the output of it would tend to become bland, average, and borrowing. So even though you might find the first output you saw interesting to read, once you read uh five of those, it would be too repetitive and boring and not really fitting to each of the news brands. So the next part of our journey with DNAI and with Magna has really been focused on trying to customize and adapt as much as possible to the identity and tone of voice of each of our news brands. That has proven to be the technical challenges that we spend most time on. And I think we've gotten uh we've gotten pretty far, I think. But it's still the the area where I feel that we have uh still have most to solve yet to really make it feel right. And how did you go about trying to match that content, that AI generated content to your publication's unique voice? Uh at first with we were only working with Exablood at the time, uh in the beginning. There it was really sort of uh experimenting, first seeing the output ourselves and and th and thinking uh this is way off, right? And then beginning to do user testing with the tutorial room and get their feedback on things. And we did that sort of in a number of sort of small-scale studies to begin with, which uh was basically the uh the basis for for the first beta version of Magna. Which we rolled out fully Alexa-blodded in in like the sort of late fall of 2023 or so. Later on we've basically had the same process with all the brands, all the major brands in Delta Politik and Souss. So talking first with the uh with our anchor points on each brand about what's unique about this more than what we can just just conceive what do you describe as unique trying to do prompts and to do various sort of things to adapt to that and then uh testing it in a small user group of journalists on the publication and then rolling out adding out of scale when we were ready. And then getting the real feedback and it's a really exciting thing, I think, to me to be uh the journey we've been through in that dimension about first working based on our own assumptions. Then working based on input from the room from a small group, and then working based on input from the entire tutorial room because it's really qualitatively different the input you're getting in those three those three phases And it's a lot more fun getting it from uh from people using it in the really real world situations. Um and uh and I'd say that uh the adaptation and development of Magna the technical things we do to make it fit more with the digital news brand is really still ongoing and we adapted a lot more after we rolled it up sort of bigger and got a different types of type of input back to us um And I do expect it will be a focus for us for the next couple of years too. Yeah. And on the technical side of it, was it mainly through the prompts where you were able to capture that unique value? Or were you also experimenting with fine-tuning these models more on each brand's voice? So it has really mainly been about prompting for us still. So uh we've done a lot of fine-tuning, we've done a lot of training for recommenders a lot of fine-tuning for those metadata classification focused models that we did uh we've been we've been doing since 2020 or so i think that um the low-hanging fruits here have really been through prompting And I think at this point we pushed it as far as you can with prompting, with a few exceptions I can explain if if you want to get really technical. But uh fine-tuning will be the next step. I'll explain also why we've been waiting with that, but um in terms of of sort of the prompt journey To get a bit more technical there. Right now the quality that you get from Magna is based on some very sort of well-tested and extensive prompts. that use all the tricks in the book, right? I would think we've gotten far with that. But we can also see definitely that we've been at this point we're beginning to overload our prompts. So the next step we're in right now where we think we can get value from ECS is uh is prompt chaining and uh beginning to work with agents inside of Magna because uh A language model really can't just hold all those dependencies that you get from a really long prompt and a really long output and a really long input and all this. You need to break it down. After that, I think uh I think fine-tuning is is uh necessary as it's the next step. So I think you can learn a lot from the fine tuning that people have been doing so far, but the tone of voice focused fine tuning have had to be based on the open source models. That have a high quality but maybe not as high quality as some of the proprietary models. And the proprietary models haven't allowed you to do the The types of fine-tuning you'd need not just to perform one specific task better, but to improve the tone of voice across multiple tasks. So that's one of the reasons why we sort of pushed that a little bit, even though I'm sure it's gonna be really important and and I've seen good results, interesting results from other publishers who've been doing the fine-tuning. And I think one of the big questions with generative AI is always how do the journalists actually feel about them and using them and a capability of Magna is basically helping you draft an article. And so how did the newsroom react? to Magna's ability to do that. So I think also we've sort of been through different phases there. And uh and you can see that um there's a different levels of approaching that app, right? In general, I think we've uh definitely experienced a lot of Positivity, certainly in the early days. People wanting to uh we definitely had a group who were like not really interested in this or who were probably also against it, but we haven't been engaging that much with those in the in the in the early days. That was more the front runners who were really interested in getting into this. also worried and lots of questions, lots of things we need to address there, but but uh certainly a lot of postpositivity. I think now we're in a different stage where we're rolling it out to where we have been rolling it out for a while to to the uh in whole newsrooms and the Irish journalists have been getting it into their hands. Here we can definitely see uh that both the people who who haven't experienced it yet have both sort of potentials they're seeing and worries. And also the people who have been using it now have worries and see potentials, but they're different ones. So typically the people who haven't really gotten into it yet. Well, I'd say that their view on potentials and on worries are lit a little bit sort of based on all that hype that's been circling around AI. And uh Those are important to address to ensure that people get the right expectations a around the technology and what what it will mean. But the um worries and the uh Expectations and the sort of potential people see once they begin using it is a lot more interesting. Here we're getting concrete feedbacks both about sort of quality and sort of language styles and all this. that we really sort of are working actively to address. I think really uh we're experiencing it as very constructive and and we're also getting so many requests for people saying, can't you also build this for me? Can't you also build this for me? Can't you also build this for me? And we're having a big trouble keeping up with that demand, I'd say. But I think also to show you the difference between not just different journalists but also different publications. So we have some group-wide policies. for Gen AI that are really the boring legal and business stuff that all the brands need to adhere to. But then each of the editorial rooms have their own editorial guidelines for how they can use AI. I generative AI and they're different, as they should be, because each of the news brands uh have a different legacy, different values, different profile, so they should be different. And that's why we're also building building Magna is a shared infrastructure, but it's very customizable. So they they experience Magna differently each of them. And some of the brands don't have certain tools rolled out to them because their policy doesn't allow it. So to be more concrete here, I won't mention any concrete brands because they can explain their argumentation themselves, right? But some brands are just ready to roll most out. If they thought about it, it's not that they haven't thought about it, but but ready to roll m roll most of it out. Other brands are saying so we are happy with using the writing assistant tools, but story enrichment, that's too soon for us. We don't want anything that uh sort of really activates the more generative sides of AI That produces a text that could in principle be published with human review. So each of our brands are positioning themselves differently in this this space. I think that's the way it should be. Because they are different. And I'm kind of happy that they're sort of actively engaging with this and thinking about it and coming up with different conclusions. Sometimes it makes sort of my work more hard harder because it would be easier if they all just wanted the same, but it sort of creates that good discussion that we need. And so can you walk me through the breadth of tools that are then offered where there are still in places that people are not that comfortable with? Yeah, so we only roll out the tools to everyone that we feel are mature and ready. And then we have a number of prototypes that are gonna be rolling out. a bit later. And the stuff that we rolled out right now are really sort of the the basic ones that most publishers start with, right? So uh it's uh basic writing assistance It's proofreading, translation, it's uh suggestions for headlines, these types of things. It's also sort of criticized my article. A little bit like what the uh what you'd ask a colleague to do once you wrote a piece Then it gets into um sort of uh write a draft based on my put, which is definitely more ambitious you can say, where you might Sort of just put in like your uh three facts and an angle and then it will give it its sort of it its best shot on on what a draft article could look like. It's not meant for publication at all. It's meant as as an input for the work for the reporter, right? And then sort of in the RAG line we have uh set up that where you can use the RAC solution, retrieval augmented generation, where you dig into the archive and you search stuff up and then you write stuff based on it. We have an activation of that that's uh a line of tools that can be used for research. If you're researching for a story, and then we have another line where you can use it to write story elements like uh fact boxes across political articles and uh and stuff like that. Or you give it your own task like write an FAQ or do a quiz or something based on our coverage, right? So that's sort of the full scope of our of our sort of basic tools that are rolled out to m almost everyone at this point, except for the brands that set uh so That's a little bit too soon for us to sum of that, right? They might not have the uh write article draft based on my input and uh then there might be some other rack solutions there, rack tools there. that they'll they don't have yet because they're saying uh we need to sort of uh either we don't want it at all or we want to wait a little bit. Basically we're seeing that stuff that could in principle be published But needs for you. Some of the brands are holding a big bit back on that. But I think you can see here that uh these are the tools that you've seen lots of publishers building, right? And now we just uh at a stage where we rolled it out to everyone and we adapted it to each of the brands and uh And we feel that this they're mature in the first version. Later on we're getting into uh the other steps in the journalistic production chain. So internally we're sort of in a simplified version looking at uh news discovery and research. writing assistant and story enrichment where we've been doing most of our work so far and then uh versioning afterwards where you can once you did the first piece you can version it to other text spaces or audio or whatever. And uh we haven't rolled that much out broadly in that, but we're heavy in user testing stage in these other sort of areas. And here we're using interesting things where uh some of the brands that are sort of less aggressive in the uh generative aspects of of of story enrichment, uh might be the ones that are really interested in user-facing chatbots or audio versions or stuff like that. So it's sort of uh it's it's well argued positions, but they're very different between the brands. And for the newsrooms that are using those features such as the story enrichment, the help with article drafting, the research, the functionalities. How have they been incorporating that? Like has there been a huge difference and a lot of wins that they've been having in the way they've been able to produce their news now as a result I think that definitely has. It's still really early days for this stuff. I think sometimes we're exaggerating how fast this will happen. Even if the technology is developed develops exponentially. Then uh rolling it out and adapting it, that's change management. That's a very linear process. But I think uh in the generator AI space uh the uh tools that are creating most value at the time are really the the small on ones that just routinize tasks because they're so easy to use. So like proofreading. Translation, also headline suggestions, the classical ones really. Uh we can see that the use of the more advanced stuff is uh increasing. And I feel sort of absolutely certain that that would also be sort of have massive value uh as they roll out. We can see that they're being used, so a number of our brands do the summarization now. sort of AI based summarization. Other brands do the uh also even include like uh AI generated illustrations for some types of of of tasks. But uh we are still really early in the june in the in the journey of of seeing the large scale value creation in this. And I wouldn't expect anything more there. So because it's it's really sort of most of the brands got these tools last fall. The last one of them is it was really sort of January, February of this year. We we are seeing twenty twenty five as the big rollout year where uh the courses and education of the journalists are being rolled out now. First courses are beginning in in the later this month. So in that sense, uh there's a bit of lag uh between potential and uh and value creation. That is really expected here, I'd say. If you want to see Not just the example of users really like this point summarization, but if you want to see sort of bottom line results, uh right, on the global scale, on the large scale, right. And I just want to get into again the adoption part right now. So how are you like socializing these tools with the journalist? Is it a bunch of trainings? in person, online, how are you getting your team familiarized and the editorial team familiarized with these tools? So uh each of our brands sort of are independent and uh the way we roll it out depending on what the what they want But our usual approach is that we do uh onboarding sessions and uh between zero and many follow ups and depending on brand size. what they want, how much time they want to spend on it. And that that comes after obviously all the user testing and all the stuff that is done in with a limited group. And then the next step is the education here. And here we're uh offering a uh different types of courses. Uh some of it is not completely announced yet, but I'll just say that uh that we're offering some basic courses that are meant for basically all journalists. who are using these tools and we are offering some uh more advanced courses which are meant for the expert users and ambassadors who can also be um be helping other journalists using these tools in the uh everyday work processes And I know that one of the unique aspects of all of this is also how your team evolved after the PIN project from just being like a local unit inside of Extrabladder to this shared central unit that's now serving all of these multiple brands. And so I want to get into your thoughts into how do you organize for AI innovation in such a large media group? That's a really good question, I think, because uh we've been thinking a lot about it. also because we've been through this transition. So before in January twenty twenty four we transitioned from being a research increasingly applied unit basically subladed to being a shared or centralized unit that serves the entire group, right? And uh we really think that transition is right for us, but we're very aware that uh that there are some drawbacks to the central model that we need to uh make sure that we address So from the local model you get the the closeness to work processes to the needs, usually the flexibility of uh having only two build systems for one brand. and not having to handle the complexity of multiple brands. So you can definitely act faster. And I think we're seeing that uh in the at many publishers that uh that have the local model uh implemented But I think very often, that's also what we experienced, you you're seeing sort of two trap drawbacks of the local model. One obviously is that it's really hard to to sort of harvest the value across multiple brands if you build it for one brand. And the other one is that it's harder to build enough critical mass investments to make sure that you can build build the tools in ways that are really solid. And stable and scalable, right? So I think from the local model you're often getting more flexibility, more speed, but also often a lot of really good one-shots that are hard to repeat and hard to scale and hard to use in different uh groups, right? Whereas in the centralized model, at least that's what we're hoping hoping for, uh it's easier to get the critical mass to build really solid tools and handle the handle the complexity of serving multiple brands. But you might have the drawbacks of getting further away from the from the real needs, from knowledge of the individual needs, because they can be very context specific. And uh to address that, the organization we've built now, in particularly in the generative tool space, is that now we have the shared unit that I'm running. with a number of people who are uh really sort of technicians and uh and UX people. But we're working closely with uh what we call local AI hubs of different sizes on the on the different brands. So uh each of the major brands have a hub. with one person in charge that sort of organized a network of journalists who are uh at different levels of ambition have time to spend on developing AI and testing AI or just really interested in it Uh so we work closely with them to uh get input on what they need and for user testing. And we're very dependent on that. So also sort of if you're trying to see How much are we really sort of investing in developing AI? It's very easy to for me to know my budget, right? But uh on top of my budget, we have all the time spent in the local organizations, which is quite a lot, and that's really needed. So that's the model we're striving for now. And I think lots of publishers I'm seeing are sort of also striving to find the right model here to make sure that what they're building is scalable and solid and to make sure that they don't end up with a centralized model that's uh too slow and too far from the needs. Yeah, and it's that collaboration across the different publications with the AI front runners basically there. That's another challenge, I think. We're definitely collaborating with the front runners because they're so engaged. They and they know so much and uh but what we're trying to include also the ordinary journalists. Because we're also trying to transition from building tools for the front runners to building tools for for the normal journalists, right? And there's a difference there because The front runner is uh has been experimenting. They'd be using AI regardless of whether we make tools available for them or not. As long as it's within policy, of course, because they always comply with policy, or maybe they don't, I don't know. But uh they usually um have experience, good at prompting, all these things. Whereas the uh average journalists are not necessarily that interested in and good at prompting and all these things. So they need the tools made available to them in a in a different way. And and we shouldn't, in my sort of experience and and and opinion, make all journalists prompt engineers. Another way we're sort of talking about that is saying that uh it seems like you have two different UI or UX paradigms here. So you have a new one coming up that's based on prompting and chatting and all this. And then you have the old paradigm that you know from Office and your CMS system based on buttons and drop-down menus, right? And uh The front runners are already deep into the uh new chat paradigm, but the average journalist might not be. So we need to combine these things at least for a transition period until some people think everybody will become into the new paradigm at some point. Some people think they never will, but at least in a pretty long transition period. We need to address both uh both types of uh ways of using tools. And I think uh it's interesting because like how do you build those tools that we're gonna do? are gonna work for the average journalist, but also for those AI front runners. And I think there might be a possibility where like how we know how to Google, we'll know how to talk to a tool like ChatGPT that would but it takes time for an average journalist who maybe has never tried this out to get to that level. It's a lot of practice. It does. And I'd say something as um that sounds as simple as a proofreading tool based on AI, it's really hard to prompt yourself to good proofreading. In particularly if you wanted to also adapt to the writing sort of guide of a publication. I say it's almost impossible for for an average journalist to do that. But there if you want quality you need uh special probleming. And that's a very specialized tool, right? So you only need to do that once, then you can use it across Bullet articles, right? Whereas uh if you're in the research base on more customized tasks, then uh it does make sense to b to spend the time on building a very focused tool. That makes sense to uh to make sure that's available in a more photo sort of free prompting mode for the increasing number of people who were want and can interact with uh with content and text in that way. For the newsrooms I'm thinking that don't have the resources and don't have the ability to have a Casper in every single newsroom to be able to do this. How do you see them being able to capitalize on this AI? Is it taking these AI frontrunners and making them the people who are able to create these tools for the rest of the newsroom? And share the knowledge in that way? Yeah, I think um definitely f at this point it makes sense that that you'd have that approach if you're a smaller publisher. I do think that approach will have some limits with the um sort of mass of journalists there But if we're specifically in the DNA I space, then uh I I know that uh all the CMS systems are developing tools right now that are easier to use, right? So uh But I think uh until those tools arrive and mature, it will take some time before they they do. Then the uh approach focused on the front runners might be right, but uh also just to get some basic sort of Gen AI literacy. into your editorial room, but soon they will get help from uh CMS systems and stuff like that. Then as you sort of begin to work with vendors I think this might be even more important if you're doing personalization of recommender systems. But I just think that um to me it's important that you as a publisher realize that this is Going to be transformative, right? It might be small in small ways you're using it to begin with. This is technology that's getting more into our core activities. what it means to be journ to do journalism. That's why it makes sense for some people to build it to control it and get it right. If you can't do that and if you or if you won't do that, then you should still make sure that you really understand the technology well enough That requires investing some time and some trial and error in it so that you can have an informed dialogue with your vendor, with your CMS system, or your or your supplier of recommender systems, or whatever it might be, because you need to be able to ask that vendor the right questions and make the right demands on it to make sure that the tools you get can uh either be directly adapted to your values and your profile as a publisher or that you at least have tools to monitor. Whether the output of the systems are in line with your profile. This is uh both important for GNAI, but perhaps even more for recommender systems and personalization. And how do you think when you are evaluating these different types of vendors, what is that line maybe to decide whether this is the place where I should build versus buy and for this particular s work. Yeah, so that's another really good question there. So the build by decision, right? I think there are lots of areas here where publishers should be buying AI technology. Definitely. And I do think that there are some areas also where publishers, if they can, should be building it. or at least making sure they make the make the right demands on their vendors, right? The um domains where I think the the buy solution is definitely right are the generic, broad domains where uh they serve needs that most publish that most companies really need. that don't really go to the core of your of what you do as as a as a journalistic publisher. That might be um HR tools, economic tools, tools for your economic department, definitely. It might also be tools you use in your content sales even though the more you're approaching something that that is connected to your brand and your data structure, the more you might might need to build there to get really efficient solutions. So that's like a like a 50-50 area maybe of build by Then when you get into the domains where where it sort of affects that core production chain you have in the in the in the newsroom, the way you write your articles, the way you distribute them or personalize the news flow on your site. then I I think that uh you should be building yourself or at least making demands on your vendor to make sure that you understand the technology, that you're in control of the the technology editorially, so that it doesn't change who you are as you're scaling your recommenders or as you're using those tools. more as they affect the language, the way you're writing and all this. Those are sort of the basic principles for me at least. I do also think, for example, in recommender systems, that when you in-house them, you do get more Performance out of them because you uh getting them to work really really well takes uh customization and adaptation to your brand and the brand's data. So you do get more uh also just commercial value out of your recommenders. Per You get more people you have more engagement, more signups, more all this stuff if you get it right in building it yourself. But uh perhaps even more importantly, uh you you maintain control and ability to steer your your technology aligned with your profile and values as a publisher. I completely agree with that assessment because I feel like AI is going to become a core part of your news organization. It is also the voice as you have it at Magna. It's the voice of each publication and if you outsource that at to what level it does it is it yours and having that control even though it might be slow to get out right now I think that added investment is worth it at this moment. I think also I think you should realize probably is that um most of the CMS systems that uh journalistic CMS systems content management systems that are beginning to integrate generated tools into the basic editor that you buy from them that um often they will make the editor and the buttons available. But you still need to do the prompting yourself or the fine chip and the connection to the model yourself underneath. So they might supply you with like a standard model and a standard prompt. But you might still need to uh do a lot of work on on the prompting and the fine-tuning and the model selection underneath to get that tone of voice right. You just don't need to build the front end yourself. any longer. Yeah, once they come in with hopefully uh well functioning editors that include the integrate NAI. Yeah. So it's it's just mainly that front end that we are buying, you still need to input your voice and the way in which you want your publication to sound. Otherwise it'll sound generic and it won't be able to differentiate from another brand Exactly right, yes. And then different CMS systems will will be developing different ways for you to do that, I'm sure. And depending on the resources you have and what you want to invest and how important you find this. You can be you you can select your semester some beta based on that maybe. Whether you want sort of complete API control or you're happy with a prompt UI or whatever you might need to make sure that you connect those buttons to a To your values. Um yeah. And I wanna talk more about the news recommendation, um the recommender systems, because that's also one part where the PIN project focused on and I think it's one of the biggest applications for AI and journalism, but it's in incredibly complex to do that for news. What do you see as the biggest challenges of making these sort of recommendation systems work for a newsroom while still being able to maintain the journalistic integrity? Yeah, so I think um there are technical challenges uh that we can get into, but they're actually important for creating value with the recommenders. But uh to address the the question more directly, sort of the important thing for making sure that you implement them in ways that that where they are in line with your values. It's uh sort of first step here I think is uh realize the impact they have on your news flow. So uh we have so much data from the Pin Project on that. And also we did a sort of uh an open challenge based on an open source data set where lots of people trained models and evaluated them for news flow effects. on our data. First step is seeing uh how big an impact they have on your news flow. So uh two recommenders that have the same ability to engage or drive sales or whatever you might mention it on in those hardcore metrics and have very different effects on the news flow. And that's sort of you the core of your profile, right? Can you describe what you mean by that? Okay, let's have a classical example here. You have two different paradigms for how you do a personalized recommended. One is collaborative building and one is a content-based system They work very differently. If you implement this well-optimized model in a standard recommendation setting, which might just be recommend most recent published articles. like uh sort through these 250 most recently published articles and personalize the top five recommendations for each user. Then usually those two systems can be optimized to work just as well, measured on click rates or sales or whatever you measured on. But typically the collaborative filtering system will be um biased towards the most popular news articles that most people read. That's just basically the way it works. We can get technical about explaining why that's the case, right? Whereas the content-based system uh will be uh a lot better at uh being very well calibrated with the reading history of each reader. And thus recommends a lot more of the of the long tail niche stories that you've written and not that many people read. So the um news flow that you're getting personalized from those two systems are just very different. Typically this is individual for each news brand, right? But very often a collective filtering system will recommend more entertainment content. But it depends on what's popular on your on your news website, right? Whereas other systems might be uh able to recommend more uh more sort of uh politics, stuff like that even. But also be have a very low what you call serendipity. So it might recommend more more niche content that you'd like your readers to read, but it's not gonna puncture that bubble It's gonna be really well calibrated with the reading history. Acolyphora filtering system is more is better at at puncturing that bubble, even though it's the most popular story that it tends to recommend, right? And you can measure this on many different ways. So you can just sort of distribution over a news category. You can just see how one recommender with the same click rate might recommend lots of politics. And the other one are lots of entertainment content. And this is like to the core of what you do. It might not be important if you just have a recommender on like section page four on the bottom right, but if you're incrementing it at scale on your front page, then it becomes important to know this is the case, to uh make sure that you can monitor it as it progresses and that you have ways of reacting to it when it gets out of line. Either on a monthly basis or weekly basis or in real time depending on your level of operation here and uh also your level of traffic really. And how has these recommender systems that you've been working on helping the publications over there? Is this across all of the publications again, the same shared infrastructure? We're getting there. So uh most of our recommender system work have been with extra bladder, so we've been running recommenders at extra bladder for many years now. We've been tasked with uh making sure that our algorithms can be used in the right way across the group. But that's the technical challenges that I mentioned like a few minutes ago. Is that in addition to getting them calibrated well Which I think we've done. We still have more steps in that journey to make it really work well. We also have the technical journey here to make sure that you can really just do effective personalization at scale across all these brands Uh because it's certainly doable, you've seen many publishers do it, but it's uh it's more complex getting a recommendation flow to work from beginning to end than uh than doing generative tools that you roll out directly to a journalist uh from a purely technical perspective. Because you need to collect connect the render the render two data flows. Those data flows have to be in real time, and real time doesn't mean available on a dashboard one second later. It means milliseconds and that requires a lot of technical work for many publishers who just aren't there yet, right? It also requires a lot of front-end work on making sure that you can that your main news flow can not just show one news flow to everyone, but show maybe a million different use flows in real time in milliseconds, right? So into implementing recommender systems at scale goes a lot more technical work. We've covered the PEN project in terms of all of the work that was done with Magna, the recommendation system, and you've also done a lot of things with the metadata classification through that. Can you talk a little bit more about what that journey has been like? Yeah, so sort of that's really interesting also from a technology perspective, right? A lot of the metadata that we've been doing has been um understanding news articles better. We're also doing some stuff in in like user focused stuff, but that's really the main part of it. So here we started back in 2020, realizing that uh Wow, a big change has happened in language technology. After the transformer model was invented in 17, we got the first pre-trained transformers for Danish. uh that weren't innovative but were big language models in 2019-2020, making sure that you could do basic tagging well. So through the 2010s, auto tagging has been a dream for publishers And there's been so many failed projects in that of because the breakthrough that happened technology-wise in 2017, which then became industrially mature around 2020, suddenly you could do that. So the first part of our journey here was really fine tuning those early big language models to be able to read news articles and classify them. based on all sorts of technology taxonomies that were necessary for both internal downstream tasks but also advertising downstream tasks because that's a data point they need over there in the commercial departments. So Sorry, did you say upward downstream? I didn't get that word. So once we have the model, the application of a recommender system or a generated tool is is so clear, right? Whereas metadata is is sort of uh it always sounds less sexy, right? Because the application of it is more distance. But it's really, really important. It just because it can be used for so many different things. So say you have uh a good symbol MLP model running that does topic classification. You can use that downstream for topic-based lists on your website. You can use it for as an input to a recommender, or you can use it to target audiences semantically in the advertising space. So there are many different sort of downstream applications of of that individual model, right? But that was the first work we did. Then do you know where where the models come, right? And you can Just do those basic tasks in a different way. It's a lot easier to do them, but it's still a bit hard to do them right. So now you can prompt a model and say, what topics are in my news article? But that's a bit dangerous if you don't have a test set as you used to have back in the day, like I'm talking 2022 here, because you you're not gonna be able to control the bias, right? But now you can do that easier. So that's one way that journey has changed, right? Now we can do it more efficiently, but we're trying to maintain some of the principles that we learned back in the day in 2021, 2022, for how to get it right in terms of controlling bias. With a new language model. How would you say you can control that bias? And when you're using now you're using generative models to do that, what were those principles you learned through that first iteration that you're now applying Yeah, so um back in the day you used to fine-tune a language model and then see how well it worked on a test set. Uh you don't need to fine-tune it any longer, but I'd say you still need the test set. We'll come back to that in in a generated domain here. In the pin projects, because we had this ambition of about aligning the technology with our values, uh, we made sure that when we used the test set, we didn't just test for accuracy. Like standard F1 scores and stuff like that is usually typically used there. Uh we also tested for different types of bias. So whether um the labels we were putting on the articles the categories were evenly distributed, were representative of what we knew already about our sample of news articles, and whether there were differences between different user segments. So men and women, age groups, this type of stuff. We added that and that was sort of not an easy thing to do, but sort of almost part of the methodology you could use when you had a test set, right? And that's just the same thing we want to do when we're using the the generative models. We don't need the fine shielding set anymore, but we still need the test set to make so that And Just for these prizes and then correct it if we are seeing it's biased. I'm back with the technical talks, but certainly also the business value talks here, uh definitely. But it's just interesting that uh another way the metadata space has changed is that uh we used to talk mainly about label, labeling, uh labeling news articles, stuff like that. J Now we're talking a lot more about embeddings, right? Which is the different type of of uh metadata which are just so much more usable for many different types of applications, but so much more difficult to handle because they're harder to interpret. Can you describe now a bit about the embeddings and how that's different from metadata? Yeah, so um When you classify a news article, you'll ask a language model to assess whether it should be part of some categories that you know well. Is this positive or negative? Is it sports or is it news? Stuff like that, right? When you uh ask an algorithm to embed a news article, you're allowing it to position it in a this is really abstract, it can easily get abstract, to position it in a multidimensional space that it created itself relative to all our news articles. And this is as you can all hear it, right? Very difficult to interpret, right? But it's so much more granular than the um information contained in the labels from the classification approach to this. And for that reason you can use it efficiently for so much more many many more applications. A lot of the reasons why recommender systems work a lot better for news now than they did five years ago is because of those embeddings because now they're part of uh of the way USC are recommended to optimize towards something based on the reading history of a news user. Maybe I've gotten too technical now. You can definitely steer us back into business value or or the other. So I love that. But I I also want to get into a big Focus in the PIN project, as you were alluding to previously about the values, was making sure the AI, whatever you're working on, aligns with the journalistic values, and it's not just business or engagement metrics that are there. And you came up and you introduced a concept of the values concept to guide your AI development. Can you explain a bit more about that? Describe that values compass and how it was shaping your approach. So the value campus was uh was a part of the PIN project and it was something we developed very early in the project. It was meant to um so we had the ambition of uh of uh ensuring this alignment of the AI system with the publisher's values, and we needed a tool to help us with that. also to coordinate all the different perspectives that we knew were necessary for getting there for a balanced aligned AI system. So the value compass contains uh two different approaches to to um figuring out how to build an aligned AI system. At first it's a process that says you need you should go through you should follow this model, go through three steps. The first is uh is uh define the uh the core mission of what you want to do as a publisher And this is independent of technology. So make sure that that's the point of departure. The next step says uh these different types of considerations need to be balanced to make sure you get a functional and healthy recommender system. And we can get into what that means. The third step says uh well basically build your system in line with what you decided, basically. So and this can be a recommender system, it can be an generative AI tool, it can be an evaluation framework or monitoring framework. that that comes out of this process. That was the one perspective in the value compass. The other perspective is the uh the different um considerations you should be taking. and balancing towards each other in step two. So within the constraints of the basic mission, which is most important, the value compass sort of helps you to uh to look at what's important to achieve here from a journalistic, also from a technical perspective. And from a business perspective and from a user perspective. Because to build a sustainable and healthy recommender system, you need to take all these considerations into into mind within the constraints of the overall mission. So I think you've seen, especially in the early days. some AI systems that were only technically optimized, then maybe worked really technically well, but they were not sustainable because they weren't journalistically sustainable or business-wise sustainable, right? You also had some AI systems that were really well thought through journalistically. But only journalistically. So they weren't sustainable because technically they didn't work, or the users didn't like them because they didn't w like what came out of them. So so the the the value commass allows you to is a way to make sure that you take these things into account. And says also says that they should all legitimately be there, which is a provocation for some journalist at some point, right, saying, should we also be thinking about commercial values and technical values in the second step, right? Let's read the compass and what it does, right? And we used it through the Pen project to uh both to create these evaluation frameworks for our systems and also to make sure that we knew how how the social science departments and the technical departments and we as a company clicked together in this complex complex beast that was pinned, that sort of cut across industries uh and professions. I really like that value as compass idea. I think it's Important for any AI development team in Muse to think through that and it was a really well laid out framework. I'm thinking about look whether any specific applications or technologies that or approaches that you decided not to pursue as a result of this values compass. Yes so I'd say that sort of it definitely affected the approaches we took to uh the technology we used Uh there hasn't been any technologies that we that we chose not to use, I think, because we haven't really it's really been NLP language models, recommender systems and so forth. We haven't considered like biometrics or anything like that. That would be Clearly uh not in line with our basic values. But um if you take a recommender system, for example, it's um the commercial values, they can definitely give you an input there into that you what types of engagement you'd like and what types of sales you'd like this to be promoting. The toll values can tell you uh how you need this to be in line with your profile or to use it to sort of have some abilities that you can't. that you'd like to have editorly but can't do with our recommender system, such as uh making sure that the niche stories have a space on the front page, right? So these things are are sort of things that can be balanced towards each against each other. So concrete examples of where, for example, journalistic consideration overrided other considerations. has been uh there are some uh types of behavior in the recommender system that we make sure it can't have. So we don't want it to have an overrepresentation. in the resource produces for the individual of certain topics. So we hit the recommender system with a hammer and say, up until this point and no more. And we also say that uh these types of stories, for example stories about really violent crime, are too sensitive for recommended system to handle. So we're not gonna even gonna allow it access to that in the pool of articles that they can recommend from. Other types is that for example we we had a ban uh we had a ban on on using uh metadata on sentiment as the input to a recommender system. We didn't want to like encourage it to optimize on on feelings, stuff like that. So these are examples of sort of concrete things that came out of that value compass thinking that sort of affected what's uh what we built and also what's running in production at the Iksabad today in the commander systems. Yeah, I really like the way in which it helped guide that approach. that you had. And I'm I'm thinking just like looking ahead from all of that research that you've been doing over these past few years and the work that you've been doing rolling out, what do you see as the biggest opportunities going ahead for AI and journalism? Well and that there are so many. D different to sort of I'd say that um recommender systems. I mean that's really a big uh new news publishers. And uh some publishers are using them, but we're tech giants have been using them for a decade or more And we're really sort of behind in exploiting that. Big opportunity there, both business wise and editorially. We just need to make sure that we get it right as we scale it. So that we uh make sure that it's aligned with the control values too. And Obviously also Gen AI that's a big opportunity there. I think that it's both dangerous and opportunities there. And it's still really early days here. So I I think I can say that like back in twenty twenty I said that an AI away will come. Nara I'm saying it's definitely here and we've uh we're up to our ankles or our knees, right? Uh we can see this specifically not just being hype but creating value. Is there, but it's gonna be so much more, uh in my opinion, and in my view, in the next uh three, four, five years, we need this this decay as it as it unfolds, right? So and you can see just that right now we're most publishers are beginning to see the value from the writing assistance tools and the historic enrichment, right? But with agents and all this. I mean you can see the potential in this discovery and uh versioning and all this, right? So it's really a massive opportunity there. We just really, really need to get it right. And we also need to make sure that we handle the the competitive threats that might come in in the marketplace when tech giants begin using these technologies uh with and against us. I want to get into agents a bit because what are your thoughts on its potential for news? Where where are you seeing some of the most promising exciting areas? Yeah, so I think it's uh it's not mature yet, but uh it's it it looks like it's gonna be massive. Now we're predicting the future so no one really knows, but I feel fairly certain it's gonna be massive. There's sort of different ways of seeing agents. So one really small way of seeing it is that we're breaking down our property chains into small agents. that are carrying up different tasks and in that in that sort of process of uh from input to output. That's not really agents, right? But that's a really early version of it. If we get into um the whole sort of news discovery. and uh a news research process, I think agents has a have a really big potential there. Uh I think like a a while ago you mentioned Magna being a brain from the room and I said uh I don't think we are there yet, even though we see elements of it. I think potentially agents, in particular if you include it in news discovery and research, could make Magna into more of a brain for the newsroom. So big potential there that will will unfold in the next Two, three, four, five years. And again, it's just really important we get it right the way we do it. I I think we are maybe where we were with language models back in like 2021, where it was still not mature enough at that point. That's the stage we are with AI agents right now, but exciting potential that we can see. This has been so fascinating hearing about all of the work that you've been doing, but I want to end with just a fan favorite about how are you using AI in your own personal life So uh I guess it in my inner personal life I guess I'm like uh so many other like normal people, right? Even though I'm probably using a bit more, right? So I'm definitely using Gen AI for a bit for work, but also for lots of personal stuff. We had like uh around Christmas like uh one of those now classic in AI units sort of uh small challenges in in inside our small group where we uh all put in the same prop into chat T V C saying based on what you know about me Illustrate my typical day. Oh yes, correct. And that sort of gives you an illustration, not really of your typical day necessarily, but of what you're using Chat TBC for. And uh all my good people sort of published their images and you can see that one of them had like computers and and a mic in front of them. She's the one doing the voice cloning of obviously. Another one had like uh computers and and like a big library of books as one of our industrial PhDs. Another one had like the gaming pad next to them and uh and all this uh sort of uh all centered on on on sort of uh work and different approaches to work, right? And that's because they use Magna or ChatGPT or other edices a lot for for coding. Right. Then my image came out and this was like uh an image of a living room, uh me jumping up and down, two small cells in my hand. Bright colors, like uh I think it's at one one place it's at like Gabby's dollhouse. Uh you can hear that we're big fans of Gabby here at home with my two girls who's like who are uh one and uh and five And I kind of uh like this colorful room with these two joyous girls, it kind of made me happy, right? Because it shows you sort of what my life also contains. Part of the reason for it is that I've been experimenting with using it for personalized bedtime stories for my girls, I guess. Uh it it made me happy, but it also made me worried about posting this because I seemed like the uh the person in my AI unit spending the least time on work in the entire because my In life was like this. So that that gives you an impression at least of of how I'm using how I'm using ChatTPT and Magna and other stuff like that in my everyday life. That's a pretty accurate representation over there from the photo. I did the exact same thing last year. I think this was a trend that was coming about that time. And uh mine was my podcast. mic and headphones and it was just like AI AI AI everywhere around me on a computer. That was that's what Chad GPT thought my day looked like Which kinda accurate I think. Yeah, and I was kind of expecting that too. But a whole different interpretation of my of my uh usual day. It was also just after Christmas, we just have some vacation that might have affected it a little bit But I didn't mind at all. I didn't mind it all. You know what you should try? I've been doing this other one. I'm asking ChatGPT to roast me and because of its memory It knows things that I've spoken to it about. It's hilarious. So it thinks that I spend all my time on a plane and it said, you have a long-distance relationship with your apartment. Oh now I'm not sure I'll dare, but uh I'm gonna try doing it now anyway. Try it. It's just hilarious to look at what ChatGPT thinks about it and have a bit of fun with it. But yeah, that's uh a bit of my personal uses. Yes. Well happy to hear them too. It's really interesting and fun and also like shows you a little bit about the role that uh these tools begin playing in our lives, right? When they begin to move like this, even though they might not be completely accurate still in their uh in their representation of us. Exactly. Well, Casper, this has been so insightful. And I think all of the insights that you had from the PIN project, as I said, I think it's one of the most comprehensive, real-world explorations of that I've seen of AI in newsrooms. And I know so many people will find that those insights and those lessons so valuable from your work. So thank you so much for taking the time and joining me on Newsroom Robots and sharing all of your insights. Thank you, Nikita. So that this has been fun. Really happy to have been here and uh happy if uh if people will enjoy this. That was Caspar Linsgau, the head of AI and JP Policy and Media Groove. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast. And sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.