This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Neil Brown. He's the president of the Pointer Institute and former co-chair of the Pulitzer Price Board Before leading Poynten, he spent four decades as a journalist, editor, and news executive, including as editor and vice president of the Tampa Bay Times. In this episode, we discuss a historic shift at the Pulitzer Prizes that had happened just last year. The boat's decision to require AI disclosures and price submissions. For the first time, two Pulitzer Prize-winning entries openly acknowledged their use of AI. Neil shares why this decision was necessary and the questions it raises about transparency in journalism. We also tackled some of the toughest questions newsrooms are facing today. At what level does AI and journalism cross ethical lines? How should newsrooms navigate the tension between AI's efficiency And job displacement? And what lessons can journalism learn from past digital transitions to avoid repeating old mistakes? Hi Neo, welcome to Newsroom Robots. So excited to have you here today. Hi Nikita, good to talk to you and uh appreciate your interest. Yes, I have a lot to talk to you today about. I want us to get into some of the hard questions about What it means about integrating AI into journalism, what is its impact on the journalistic value that we bring, and this new idea that's coming about of this human AI collaboration in work. And what does that look like for the news industry? So we have a lot of Tough questions ahead that I want us to get into. But one of the first things I want us to discuss and talk about is Has been your time uh serving as a former chair of the Pulitzer Board, and you've seen the highest standards of journalism over there. And one of the key Fascinating strands from last year was that two of the Pulitzer Prize winning articles made significant use of AI. We had one was Missing in Chicago, produced by City Bureau and Invisible in the Invisible Institute. And we also had the New York Times that used AI to help with their visual investigations desk. And I wanna and get into and help take us behind the scenes sort of understanding what led to the decision for the Pulitzer to now start openly asking for AI disclosure and what did that mean for the Pulitzer Board to consider the use of AI in journalism. Well, you know, you open the the conversation by talking about you wanted to talk about the hard questions and the tough questions. And I'm thinking to myself Are there any other kind? Because these are these are definitely, you know, there's some shape shifting going on in journalism here, thanks to You know, w w we'll focus on AI, obviously, but you know, technology has been advancing the cause of journalism for a good long while. And Tools change, ideas change. Sometimes you trip across ethical challenges and you don't even realize them until they until they happen. So there's It's all and always has been sort of hard and tough and interesting and the evolution of of that technology, even as it gets to the level of the Pulitzer Prize board You know, it was both inevitable and I will tell you this. It it started about a year ago, we decided, maybe not two years ago, I guess, to add there's a questionnaire that goes with any Pulitzer. entry, any entry, forget whether it's a finalist or a winner or not, where and the questionnaire goes to how you did the story, who did you partner with, were there any corrections, any opposition to the stories? Any difficult challenges and which you might imagine often the questionnaires are filled with enormous challenges, either danger, dangerous circumstances. sources who didn't cooperate, all all kinds of things. And so we added a component to get to that critical aspect. in the conversation of about AI, which is disclosure, right? So if you used AI, you, the news organization, or the the particular journalists involved you know, employed the tools of AI. We'd like to know about it. Did you use it? And what can you explain about it? And so that seemed to be a very modern and important sort of decision to add to the to the thinking about the Pulitzer Prizes and and so people did disclose. But we also kind of acknowledged that we've never asked about a number of other tools like other technological tools, other computer assisted reporting. Tools we never asked to see the software or what kind of techniques went into d data visualization which has been honored. Who some of your sources were and all of that. To So on one hand, we were being very modern, or trying to be more modern or current, with the circumstances that AI adds a new complexity to how to think about the standards for journalism. That's a true sentence right there, right? It adds complexity about how to think about the ethics trust content gathering of journalism but it also reflects sort of um Oh, maybe an acknowledgement that it's not clear that we knew about that before as much as maybe we should. And so we've created some we've created a conversation point that sounds like something is brand new. But it may simply reflect that we're trying to keep up with tools and that maybe we've thrown a little too much pressure on did you use AI when we didn't ask some of these questions before. So when you said these are the first two to win Or there were, I think, five finalists acknowledged that they had uh used some AI, generative AI tools. We don't really know if that was the first to use them. or the first to be awarded. We don't know because we just never asked the question before. Now you have to hope that anybody who's doing journalism at the highest level that should be honored by the Pulitzer Prizes understands the concept of disclosure of disclosure and how how I got the story or how the material was gathered. and then presented. And there is no doubt that long before the current conversation we're in, in today's journalistic world or information conversation, Long before that, we did know this. Deception is bad. You should not be deceiving people how you've got the information. You should not be deceiving your audience. We don't endorse going undercover or misidentifying or misrepresentation. We haven't done that. We don't support that. And so disclosing how material was gathered how it was presented in the most open, honest, and accessible way has actually always been a sensibility of the Pulitzer Prizes. and ethical journalism. What you saw with the Pulitzer Prize Board in adding that to the questionnaire was to acknowledge technology is taking yet a new update and a new turn. We don't entirely understand the power. We didn't say AI was disqualifying in any fashion, and as you can tell from the two that one, it wasn't. But we also didn't linger on essentially a moral judgment about it. We just really believed that and I think most news organizations are dealing with this around the country. It's really separate from the Pulitzer Prizes. are dealing with a belief that transparency is a value we we should live by, that that means being more not just transparent with our audience, but being accessible and explaining. how we gathered the material and how it's presented so that there is not even the accidental possibility of deception or mis or misleading presentation. It's a it's actually uh you're gonna it's funny to ask about AI when I say this, it's still very much a human endeavor. So there's gonna be missteps. But by and large, what we did at the Pulitzers is what news organizations and a lot of organizations in the information. playing field are dealing with, which is how do you make sure that your material is trustworthy? How do you make sure that your audience is getting value from it? And can we be as open and upfront about that? And I do like the word upfront about that as possible. So we were glad to do that. I can't discuss any specific conversations that went on within the board about any particular entry, but as has been written Five organizations that were finalists acknowledged that they had employed some AI and two uh were winners and if you look at the winners or even the finalists, it's entirely about the journalism they produced. All up and down the line. Any one component was not the defining point. It's always about the totality of the work. And at the Pulitzer Prize Board, we try very hard to set a standard of uh the service of journalism and and obviously the quality of it. I like that approach and the way you were talking about it, not making a moral judgment about AI, because I still think sometimes the discussion around AI can be quite binary. It's a good or a bad. And in this way really thinking about what is the audience value for where AI is being used in journalism. And that kind of brings me into another question that I deal a lot with and I'm quite curious of is this going to be a next thing that we see with the Pulitzers or any awards. where AI is helping in writing the article. I Or that's one part that we see in is all of these the winners used AI to help them in the reporting process. And if reporters are able to bring in their domain expertise, find these stories, and then we might be in a future where AI is writing different versions of articles at different levels for different people. And now is the end product not an article that we're looking at, but just the core reporting and journalism. How are you thinking about this evolution that we might be seeing? Well I do think okay, so I think you use the word evolution as a is important, which is I think things w we will learn more and get wiser about it as we go. And while I resist sort of reflexive judgments about any of this because the business is changing all the time and has been for decades and decades, I would say there's certainly a wariness, shall we say, of anything that is what I would call not distinctive or distinguished And if you think of a machine or technology as dis you know, sort of distilling things as effectively as they may do into something that is not ultimately distinctive or distinguished, then it's probably not going to make the cut. And so for those of us who come up through a writing world, it's pretty hard to see writing distinctive enough to still be considered a writing and maybe can be considered something else, right? But it's and it's not just by any means a journalism question. If you had novels that were all entirely machine produced or something like that, you'd wonder, well, is that writing? It's a it's an assembly. There's no doubt about it. It may be a very high end and a high polished one. But I do believe that creativity, I want us to not put creativity and technology at war with each other. Guess what? You did hit hit me with a hard, tough question there. Because I don't like the idea of saying No, if it's uh you know they c machines can't write. I I don't know. There's certainly been lots of great journalism that hasn't been all that well written, but the reporting was amazing. Right. And there's some who would argue that there's a lot of there've been some great journalism or great works of art that the writing was spectacular but the reporting behind it less so. So again, I I think we need to avoid false choices. And again, I would like to say that I think technology has been bolstering and improving journalism for several decades. This is the latest use of it. I gave you an example and you wanted to go back to Pulitzer work and I'm reminded you know, I thought about this even at the time when we were adding the AI question to the Pulitzer questionnaire, but I think it might have been twenty 20 or 2021, and I think it was BuzzFeed, pretty sure it was BuzzFeed, won a Pulitzer Prize, as has the New York Times and others adverse times. Through where the among the work that was entered and that was properly hailed was some very sophisticated use of satellite imagery to figure out where Uyghur Muslim minorities and Uyghurs were being held in China. I think they said at the time China had acknowledged detention centers in like a handful or a small number of cases. And Buzzfeed, the New York Times, others had said it's probably the probably detention centers, which can even be described as concentration camps if you got right down to it. throughout the country, Hugh Mong's country, right? But they couldn't find them. So they used satellite imageries and computer technology to try to map out where they likely were Okay, now I I I don't mean to be naive and I know you have an audience that has is really a high-end tech audience in a lot of ways, but that is technology. Whether you consider that AI or generative AI, I don't know, but it is high-end. Info gathering and then creating maps. Is that stories? Is it right? They were maps. And basically journalistically through the marriage of technology and human judgment and editorial thinking Enlightening us about a very, very horrible circumstance that we wouldn't otherwise know. All right. Do we call that AI? Do we call that writing? Do we call I don't know. That's why I think you're right. I don't think we ought to have these quite these direct choices. But what I do know is back then, before everybody was using the phrase generator of AI, and it might not have been what is technically AI at all. The technology was advancing the journalism effort enormously. It was then being processed by humans. Some humans figured out how to use that satellite imagery or or computer assisted uh reporting techniques, whatever it might have been. And so I think that we want to marry the best of these things to some greater result that adds to society's understanding, audience knowledge. And here's the key. You need to be upfront about it. So back then they told us we'd use these satellite images. They couldn't say that they'd gone to all thousand detention centers, but they thought they were there. I as an audience member, in that case a board member, but if I'm just an audience member who's following it on BuzzFeed or whatever, I can make the judgment for myself about it. All I know is I'm grateful for that marriage, that sophistication. that brought a story to greater a depth of meaning than it would have been otherwise. So yeah, I don't think it's like look at academia, you know, is dealing with this all the time. You know, you can write the perfect term paper and, you know, through AI or something like that. I mean there need to be guardrails. There need to be, I'll tell you one thing, there needs to be an understanding of what's the mission of the work. If the mission of the work is a creative endeavor or enterprise, then maybe a large a large language model is not gonna meet the creative skill. If it's a gathering of certain information in unbelievable speed is the mission, well then maybe it's going to compete, it's going to be distinctive and distinguished. So I I do think these are the questions we're trying to sort out. I do think we need to stick true to our values of transparency and lack of deception and disclosure and honesty with the audience. And at the same time, I think we can embrace the possibilities that it is showing, which is audience engagement, reach, and Speed and other things. Yeah, and I really like that the way you framed it, going back to the mission of the work that we're doing, the why. I think the why depends from newsroom to newsroom. It may depend from story to story. Exactly. You know, so But I want as many tools as I can. I don't want them I don't want to be failing people over them because we're sometimes you can experiment to a fault and this has nothing to do with technology. It could be with writing styles or or audience tries. You gotta be able to take some chances. And sometimes you can be so in self-indulgent in the use of tools or new and different things that you're forgetting what serves the audience when in fact maybe the most Simple and direct thing serves the audience. So again, put the audience first, then you can go from there. This is all bringing me to the fact that as you said, AI is been used in the news industry for over a decade and I think what's really new has been generative AI and since the launch of Chad GPT suddenly anybody could go to a website and get it to sound very realistic sounding journalistic articles. And that's what causes that fear of like when somebody is able to write and do something that we have thought was so unique to our profession. And that's also bringing about a lot of shifts that we're gonna be seeing in the industry in terms of what are the skills. now needed. Like if you just go to journalism schools itself, they are dealing with a lot of questions about how do they even prepare the next generation. How are you seeing and thinking about what are the evolutions that we're gonna see in the skills that that is required and how are you guys thinking about that at Pointer? So a few things come to mind. One, whether it's here's something that seems to straddle both the uh AI conversation and the non-AI traditional journalism conversation, which is accuracy. And that is a fundamental value, a key principle. And as we explore these new tools, you hear about, well, I ran something through ChatGPT or whatever, and it wasn't accurate. you know, or was incomplete, much as that might be the case with uh human uh reporting, where like I I didn't get the interview down exactly right, or I didn't I or I I transpose some facts. or I didn't understand my the empirical information I was looking at and I distilled it wrong. So this is a commonality. Technology does not erase inaccuracy, much as it doesn't automatically cause it either. So you have to you've got to embrace the the reality in the gray area that, you know No matter how powerful the tools are, imperfection is part of the challenge or it's part of the equation even. At Pointer, I'd say it's a couple uh the way we're thinking about it i i is in a few things. One, again. I do believe that even if you're talking about some of the obvious tools that are scraping various sites and all of that, they are scraping material that is Often been generated by people and over time. And so we still need an understanding of what information holds value How can information be either used well or abused? And again, if you want to talk about, you know, way back in the day, we had, you know, journalists were notorious for not using statistics accurately Right. So these principles have to be still taught and understood because you're still somebody is going to have to essentially stand by the information however gathered. So we are going to still need to understand how audiences absorb information, how they receive what has some utility for the audience. So whether it's then we can guide technological tools to produce it or guide human reporters to gather it. There are audience and reader or viewer principles that we need to understand how they how they sort of process it. Small example in the very traditional example in the journalism world, anonymous sources. So we teach the challenges of or the problem that whether it's a person or it's scraped by a tool, that and you give people information but they don't know where it comes from and they can't make a judgment about The credibility of the source, that's a problem in either direction. So we're still going to have to teach some of these just key core fundamentals of what journalism is, which is independent gathering and retrieval of information. that we can then present in a way so that it has a credibility that provides value to the audience. It could be that some tools will save some steps in that. And it could be that no story is complete without a combination of using those technological tools with human engagement through interviewing. And again, I just go back, like quit making me pick it's one or the other, or one is better than the other. It's going to depend on what's the story and what's the form. So at Pointer, we're still teaching interviewing craft clarity of writing. In the case of our work with technology and AI, we're teaching news executives. how to maybe enlist technology to help engage audiences, how to distribute the material more effectively. how to put up an ethical set of practices so that the tools can help you reach your audiences, but not mislead your audiences. So, and all of it needs to roll up to some kind of sustainability. And that's another thing we're working on in teaching. So again, I want to say that I think there's room for both. I think what we are also teaching is the culture change that allows that room for both mentality, right? There there really needs to be a newsrooms today, in my opinion, need to be a much more comfortable blend. of technologists and journalists. And by the way, technologists need to know a fair bit about journalism and journalists need to know a fair bit about the technology. And they need to engage with each other, not silo it into okay I'll send that over to tech now or I'll send that over to an editor now. We're gonna have to bring this together. And so some of what we're teaching is just the culture of a new environment. Exactly. And I think uh the most success that I've seen is when the journalists are able to speak the tech lingo and that language that then they can have better understanding the tech teams are able to work better with them as well. And that's where you see success. Well and then and conversely, or not conversely, but in addition, I've had the best luck when the technologists First ask what are you trying to do? Not do I have the tool for it. You know, what is it you want to do? I want I want audience to stay with a story longer. I don't want distractions via either donation buttons or pop-ups or something like that, or I want them less frequent. What is it you're trying to do? The technologist asks the journalist, just as the journalist has to ask The technologist, as you said. So that's what you it's gotta be a lot more about dialogue. Yeah. And coming to that whole you're talking about culture change that's required in the newsroom. And this is another one of those tough questions that I get a lot. And when people confide, it's usually AI leaders, bringing in some sort of change, introducing some sort of a workflow. that might be displacing parts of a person's job. And that is that is unfortunately a reality of Introduction of tech, you've seen that from print to digital. Journalists have jobs have changed. And this there's the next evolution that's going to happen in the newsrooms that AI is bringing about the latest world economic forums future of jobs report from 2025. just said that about 92 million jobs are expected to be displaced. But at the same time, 170 million new jobs will be created. So that's a net positive growth of 78 million jobs. And it's the same that we saw from print to digital, maybe newsrooms changing, you have new roles and new jobs coming about. But how do you think executives and leaders who are bringing about these AI changes Which are going to be threatening parts of people's jobs and sometimes entire roles by themselves, how should we be navigating all of this? When I got into journalism, they promised there'd be no math. You're throwing out a lot of numbers at me, but but so here's it, here's the deal. I mean, what you described is is the truth again, and it's not new even as we are putting it through a a fresh prism, right? So I think that it's it's a few ways, and I do not mean whatsoever. to talk about these things as if they're easy or and I want to recognize at times they are going to be painful. But you are talking about an industry journalism, media, information is an industry all all itself really, and it needs to constantly change. And if we think we're going to hold on to some kind of status quo. It's exhausting and unproductive. So the truth of the matter is you have a variety of situations. One Certainly look at, you know, it's funny I was talking to somebody who runs a newsroom the other day, and they were talking about we have senior managers and editors. And then we have team leaders who are editors, and then we have, they call them five people who are multi-platform editors. Multi-platform editors. Okay. So I go in, do you have any going back to a day, I said, uh there's still people working on the copy disk. We don't have a copy disk anymore. So, okay, so the but the point is, but you you know what you didn't have before? Multi-platform editors. So people get retrained, they adapt, their skills change, and I think it's really important for some kind of commitment to The workforce to say, if there are things you did very well before that remain valuable, even if the form changes, we can explore how to keep the value of those fundamentals. but retrain and repurpose them toward a more modern set of experiences and uses, right? So that doesn't mean everybody lose every everything is a displacement. It can be change and you have to embrace the change. But ultimately, I think some of the tension we've got, and again I'm not naive about these labor challenges, they are really difficult and and tricky at times. But they're starting from the standpoint of we don't want the work to change or we we have to protect the job as opposed to what is the Goal a year from now or two years from now. You know, start with the end in mind. Well, it needs to be sustainable. We need to reach more people. We need audience growth. We need revenue growth. How are we going to get there? Well, you need it because standing still is in collision with that. So skill sets will have to change, new sensibilities will have to change. Again, what we talked about a moment ago, which is getting past these either or you're either a technologist or a journalist, there may be an opportunity to blend those skills. So You did the net math there for real, and more jobs were created than lost. But they're different. It's almost like it's about difference, not protecting something from being lost or automatically getting something new that we that is unproven. Let's go back to what's the goal in mind? And so that could be revenue growth, audience growth. taking on mi big projects, research and development. There are a lot, and by the way, I think as we've seen, look, you see it on Substack where now we have so many writers in journalists who are now their own business entrepreneurs. So they've had to learn a business skill. Again, I don't mean to say any of it's easy or we should just sort of be glib and wave a wand and say it's the future's better for sure. I am saying that we have to get past sort of a an artificial analysis that says anything you're doing today If any technology is a threat to that, the technology must be bad. It could be, but it's going to need deeper research. And it also doesn't mean that the very individuals who are doing it can't be can't adapt themselves. And yes, if they can't Businesses change. Look at the the every other aspect of the economy flows this way. I think it's naive to think that the media and journalism industry is would somehow be immune from that. Exactly. And I think The biggest existential threat that's there to journalism is if we don't evolve, because you're seeing tech companies constantly evolving the way in which people are just getting information. And that information is news as well. And I think that's one of the biggest dangers that we have as an industry as well if we ignore where AI is. And I'm bringing this up because I'm still it's 2025 and I'm still getting into newsrooms where over 60% of the newsroom has never even tried out a tool like ChatGPT or even understanding the potential of just what's at risk if we don't evolve. So I but I that's coming to a huge shift that we're seeing in skills that we will need and the roles that might be there. I also always love hearing just getting into the experience of what it was like from print to digital. And I think there's a lot of similarities in what we're seeing from this new The infrastructure, I always say, of newsrooms are changing. It was a print infrastructure, then you had a digital infrastructure. We are now having an AI infrastructure, which is going to be changing and tech companies are becoming the middlemen in that layer. And with all of these changes, how do you see us as journalisms like what should we Maybe a lesson we should take from that era, a mistake that we should not repeat in this transition that we are having. Well probably the number one mistake to avoid doing again is to Put your head down and hope it goes away. You know, I do think that there was a little bit of that, maybe not a little bit, maybe a lot of that, as we move to online digital journalism because you'll still hear this. I know you hear it already, or well you know, print throws off most of the revenues still, you know, and sure, but all you're doing is avoiding so Grab that revenue, but don't grab at the at the expense of exploration and training and getting comfortable. I mean if the journalism field made any you know, has sort of struggled with something, it's it doesn't do enough reporting on itself. And I don't mean reporting on itself like, you know, writing about the troubles at one news organization or another. I'm saying like back to your question, I think the number one thing that a lot of news organizations can do right now is play around with Chat GPT. Play around. Organically learn what it's about. One of the things that I've continued to discover is it's fun, but it's not that good. Right? I mean, yeah, at least for my uses, right? I'm not saying it may not, it may be driving and powerful for a lot of other things, and I believe that. And it may be saving some time. And I know I have some colleagues here. We we we do not dissuade people from using it, trying it. That's how we will learn what it can do. and what it turns out it can't or what else we can get it to do. And that so I think I think we gotta go back to being good reporters in the journalism space. about what these tools really are rather than screaming like, oh my God, you know, this is there's mischief to be had. We get that, but there was plenty of mischief mischief before that. I mean long before that, from all kinds of sources So I think first of all we have to really get comfortable in ways that that should we should have learned from before, which is Um we like to say we're willing to take risks, but we didn't really, or we were slow to. And I think we have to get a little bit more authentic in our risk taking so that we really whether it's You know, assigning people and giving them the time on the job to learn how the tools work, to come up with some s problems and see if any of these tools provide a solution. I would add one other thing. Is that I and I think this is important and definitely more to come, but I'm not seeing enough of it now, is how about engaging your audience at this stage? Not just about how you can serve them once you figured out what the tool can do, but what if you brought in audience members now and that's what we didn't do in digital when in fact it turns out they might have been starting to get things on their phone quicker than we realized and we thought, oh that print revenue is never going away. Well but they're but look how they're behaving. Look how they're behaving. And rather than find out after they found something else that suits their behavior Maybe find a way to engage and enlist your audience in your own product development early on. So whether it's not just prototyping, though there's that kind of thing. but some kind of hanging out with the audience in how they behave, what their appetites are, what their fears are, rather than declare the problems and then see if we can protect the audience from them. So it's a bit, you know, abstract, I know, but I think that audience some kind of way to not test what audiences already know, but try to get audiences involved to figure out where they're going. before they're there, that would be something the journalism world has not been strong at. And we should learn from because again, when you think now of how everybody consumes news What doesn't really get says is and that's been happening now for a lot longer than we like to acknowledge. I love that advice of like bringing in the audience now. I think we go into Building AI guidelines with just the tech teams or just editorial instead of bringing out the a bringing in the audience and seeing What do they actually want and how are they, how comfortable are they with AICUs in the newsroom and how we are using it? And just that the way in which you framed it of thinking about where our audience is also heading at the same time, where their information consumption patterns are going to look like in the next one, five years, and preparing for that eventual shift as well in how we'll have to distribute our news. Yeah. Let's drive down the road together rather than wait till they get there and then they have to wait for us to catch up. And this also brings me to a point I think we s We spoke about this previously where you said that newsrooms need to approach their investments in AI on a more longitudinal basis. And not just one-term experiments didn't work out, let's shift. Yeah, well, I mean that this is uh some of it's human behavior, some of it's the journalism world, but You know, we kind of believe the last story we hear and you know, one bad story and it's it's fear, fear, fear. But also you just back to the point about audiences there's kind of an evolution of their tastes and their and their mores and all of it. And so if we're only dabbling a little bit And then trying to make some judgments. This is what happens. I mean, look at it's sorry to use this cliche, but I mean, you know, the commercial connection with people, it's a long game. And if they don't suddenly love your product tomorrow, that doesn't mean they won't love it down the road, particularly if you if it evolves with them. And so similarly with AI and some of these technological opportunities We try satisfying ourselves that we're open to the exploration, but we don't have much of a stick to itiveness at times. And I do think that one of the things you can do, Nikita, we can do at Pointer and others is And we're trying, which is not just for ourselves, but somehow collect some of our you know, lessons learned and best practices along the way and then see if we can advance them rather than just use them to get a grant and go off. and do something else. You know, so not that we all don't want grants. I'm um pro grants. But uh but I am saying that I do think that we Look at how much we know even today about something like ChatGPT or some of these tools than we did a year to two years ago. But that's actually like nothing in terms of time. So what can we do to really kind of collect that? and advance and even socialize the customers about what's going on rather than have this be in some white coat lab and then we'll let you know how it all works out later But I mean I think that uh the that level of collecting examples, collecting information, sharing it with each other so that we can make judgments and giving things a little bit more time to run rather than well we tried that for three months, six months, didn't work. First of all, odds are they didn't really try it. Or they tried it only internally. They didn't really test Or, back to your skill sets and what you can do with some of these people whose jobs may change, they're not good at qualitative testing or product testing. It's just People already have a slight predisposition deciding that was good or not good. So I do think we can learn more and more from the consumer product world as we take out these new tools. Because ultimately our audiences are should be consumers and communities and making things better. Exactly. And I think as you said it, we have to really focus in on sort of how we are using it, bring in the audience and socialize them into all of this. So we are done with all of the hard questions, but before we wrap up I wanted to get into you said you've been explaining around with ChatGPT and so this is a fun fan favorite question about how are you using AI in your personal life? So I only use it kind of two ways other than that I know the folks around me here at Pointer are experimenting all the time. We just put out our AI ethics guidelines, updated them We've had them for a while. And we're encouraging people to not be afraid of using, say, Chat GPT, Perplexity, Fireflies, right? You know, the transcription service. That's I use that. I use transcription services and chat GPT most of all myself. And I don't use them a lot, but I use them. I actually I hope this doesn't come across as blame mostly as a party game. You know, if I have to make remarks or something like that, you know, then I like to go in, see what it says. And it reminds me, it's amazingly sophisticated, cool, and weak all at the same time. Right? Because it's not well, that's not good enough. That answer is just simply not good enough. And as an editor, this is what I think think of myself. I'm I'm an editor. I've been an editor for years. I love editors I believe in it, whether it's editors who edit documentaries, long form stories, social engagement editors, editing matters. And I have found that some of these programs remind me, you need an editor. And they've they've reinforced my value, not spooked me. Even as I've been impressed by how fast uh how fast they are. But you know, to me it's important, as I said a moment ago, that everybody here at least be dabbling, at least not be not be willing to say stuff about tools that they didn't even try. You know, so we'll learn and that way you'll you'll you'll marry up with those who are really more certainly more tech based than me and and and learn more and It's it really important to demystify, bring these fears down, deep you know, not have everything be a white knuckle situation. You know, because we'll just it won't get us anywhere. It won't get us anywhere. Yeah, you can't have an opinion about a tool that you don't use um or have experimented with. It's bad reporting. It's bad journalism to do that. Exactly. Well, I also love flyflies. Always have that as my meeting note taker, but the most recent one that I've been trying out is something called granola. Is it a transcription service or what? Yes. Transcription as well. The same thing like fireflies. Any idea why they named it granola? No idea. I really like granola, so I'm going to I've learned something. I've learned lots today, but I've learned even more. Well, I've learned a lot, Neil, and it's been very interesting as well, this uh in the beginning of our conversation, understanding about the Pulitzer's approach to journalism and this conversation we've had, which just highlights that the evolution of news is n something that's going to constantly happen. And as an industry, we need to prepare for all of the future tech changes, not just this one for AI, but bring in that adaptability and the skills for us to be able to work with technology. And so this has been such a fascinating and insightful conversation. Anil, thank you so much for joining User Robots. It's been great fun and it uh to me it's about imagination and possibilities and that's that's where the business needs to go. So thanks for everything you're doing and and to your audience and and for supporting it and just being willing to engage in thinking about these things. Imagination and possibilities. That's uh Great way to end it out. Thanks, Neil. That was Neil Brown, president of the Pointer Institute. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.