This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Ludwig Siegele, the senior editor for AI initiatives at The Economist. Ludwig has been with the paper for more than 25 years. reporting from San Francisco, Berlin, and London before stepping into his current role to lead AI strategy. In our conversation Ludwig shares how The Economist is building an experimentation culture around AI and setting up an AI lab to prototype ambitious projects We discuss what worked and what didn't, from style checkers that struggled with British English to translation tools and research pipelines that are already reshaping reporting. Ludwig also talks about how the Economist is approaching audience-facing AI products, including its partnership. With Google's Notebook LM. Hi Ludwig, welcome to New Through Robots! Hi Nikita, how are you? I'm doing great and it's so good to have you here today on the podcast because you've been at the center of the Economist AI transformation. From what I've seen, you've been kickstarting a lot of the team upskilling when that began, building a lot of the AI infrastructure and helping that And a lot of your latest AI moves, building out the Economists AI lab and some recent news about partnering with Google Notebook LM, which I was very excited about because Finally as a reader, I can literally have a conversation with the economist reporting. So there's a lot for us to get into today. But today I want to just go back to those first steps really and start off from there about what worked, what didn't, look at maybe where you're thinking about taking things next. But first let's take us back. How did this AI journey at The Economist actually begin Yeah, there's a history to this. So the economist has not been known to be a tech leader in this world. I think when I joined The Economist in two thousand or something like that. we still had a mainframe-based editorial system, so uh which always crashed, I think. So The Economist is kind of like a leading, lagging indicator or for tech wave or new tech. But in this case, generative AI, we kind of got lucky. And the reason is I did a cover piece on large language models in mid-22. big cover story and we c all also experimented with AI already kind of used use I think DALI or Mid Journey, I think it was Mid Journey and uh the stuff helped us build the cover. And so in that piece I already started kind of speculating about how w journalists, how we could use AI alternative AI. And so one thing led to another. The editor asked me, why don't you start experimenting with this stuff? And I'm even talked to Google to kind of get to use one of their models back then, which didn't work out because too much bureaucracy, too many lawyers. But we weren't completely unprepared when ChatGPT hit later that year and we could quickly start doing something and experimenting. And that's very interesting how you already had set you had a foundation over there. But then once that came, I think a lot of fear was there in the newsrooms when ChatGPT hit. How did you kick off that initial past that initial wave of maybe fear and push through upskilling? I mean yes, there was in the business, in media, there was some fear. Not so much that the economists basically because I mean we have a certain ideology, we're pro-change, pro-technology. we embrace technology and would be weird for us for us journalists and kind of to say, oh no, when it comes to us we don't want to touch this stuff. So it didn't have that problem. So What we decided early on is kind of we needed to create kind of an infrastructure to experiment. So this was a fast-moving target. Uh things changed a lot, technology changed a lot. And it would have been wrong to kind of dictate from above what type of application we should build or what we should do with this technology. So what we did, we build an infrastructure I would say to to experiment and I'll explain in a moment what that is. But what you also need to know is that the economist has a very Strong bottom-up culture. Yes, the editor Zanny Mittenbeddows has the last word, but otherwise it's more like that you get hired, you you have to kind of produce your stuff. It's not dictated from above. And I kind of wanted to replicate that. culture with AI. So those two things, yeah. Things were moving fast, so it's hard to decide what to do and you had a certain culture. And so that's why we built this infrastructure to experiment. And that's not just kind of the tools Yeah, could build giving our colleagues access to tools, to chat GPT, to perplexity, what what have you. It's also kind of you mentioned upskilling, so we we did a lot of boot camps to an extent that people started complaining. I think that we had kind of three weeks, three Friday afternoons in a row, three hours of AI speeches. So so colleagues uh got a bit upset about that. But I think it was useful kind of just to show that this is important and this is interesting. And we put together a good program. I think Nikita, you you were part of that. I think at least one afternoon you had to you had to talk to us. It was very exciting to see it actually, uh the whole newsroom coming together and being very exploring the topics together. Yeah, I mean people were quite interested, but I mean three hours, uh I think I have to apologize. So but we we also did other stuff, kind of the infrastructure uh part of the infrastructure was the kind of guidelines, internal guidelines. What can you do with chat GPT and I mean that's also a fine line to say to to kind of frighten people or make them worry what could they upload, what could they put in there, but also kind of telling them don't worry too much, experiment. So it's basically our internal guidelines other than than the usual stuff is don't be stupid. Yes, use the stuff, but don't be stupid. Be careful with of course certain type of data. If you have some some scoop or or some document that is really is personal identifiable information, don't upload it. And I think that's pretty much what people did with other digital tools. They're just careful. We have an external external AI guidelines where we explain to people, readers how we use AI. They're pretty general, but we have more specific ones, for example, when we experiment right now with a personalized newsletter and it will explain how we put this together. in detail. Yes, we we did other stuff. Internal AI competition, not just not just the newsrooms, but also commercial. We did that last year. We did that this year I think we had 80 entries. It was was actually quite a lot of work to go all through all those. Just create a culture and a kind of a wave of of experimentation. That was that was the aim in the first year. Let's put it this way. And I think beyond upskilling, you're talking about setting the AI infrastructure. So how will you building out a place where they were experimenting with tools. Was it like ChatGPT? People could go and get subscriptions to other tools. Did you all have a going through a set vendors that people could go and access? Yeah, I mean we as many other publishers we have a deal with OpenAI, ChatGPT, so we have an enterprise license, which basically protects us somewhat from them using our content for training. That's the important thing, kind of we're very sensitive about that. I mean it was not that easy to to get a deal with anthropic for lots of reasons. So we but we have a few kind of anthropic licenses we have a deal with a platform called DeepSet. It's the German startup and that allows us to build pipelines, tools, experiment with those. That's a low code. environment and the idea was there that even journalists, even if you're not a techie, you can build build up data pipeline and set up some tool. I mean that proved to be a bit more difficult, but at least that was the idea. We work with translation startups, Deep L, another German startup for text translation, and Hei Gen from LA on video translation I want to get into a lot of those interesting videos that you have been creating with AJN as well a bit later on. But before that I'm trying to understand, I think having all of these tools is one thing, but from my own experience I feel like Getting journalists to actually adopt the AI tools takes time. That's one thing. Getting them to stick with it because that's a whole new workflow that they have to create. So what's actually worked for you beyond this to actually get colleagues to experiment or where have you like hit walls basically? I mean that you have to differentiate between kind of everyday use of that technology by by journalists and kind of more involved projects. And the more involved project we had, and that worked worked. Yeah, quite a few. The problem there is then then moving from a prototype, which is pretty easily built with this technology, to kind of actually implement it and get it uh robust enough and scale it and get it through the IT bureaucracy is much more difficult. A kind of product of course or engineering is always also other priorities. So it's kind of the Building the prototypes has has worked, but implementing them was was more difficult. And of course, for these type of projects, it turns out that the technology, at least for us is not good enough. So for instance we try to build a style guide and and you you know this from Puni. We tried that a lot and that's something you expect to work, but it doesn't. At least uh f at the Stanford standards we want kind of. The comma always has to be in the right spots. And where you put quotation marks and where they use Americanisms and the type of spelling it's all British. And I have to say it's kind of trying to teach an American to speak British English very, very difficult. It just it's not good enough. You get results, 80% works. And 20% it doesn't and or introduces mistakes. So yeah, we have some tools that kind of work, but uh not. So these were kind of the more involved projects. And I would say the main barriers there again was kind of the technology but also kind of our internal bureaucracy kind of implementing something. And then you have more like the everyday use. Once you've built something how do you get journalists to actually use it? And that's very difficult. Not just at The Economist, I've also heard other stories, kind of publications or publishers who've done invested or developed much better tools than we have, and people don't really use them. And I think two reasons. One is that yes, these tools can be useful, but kind of the barrier to entry or the investment you have to make as an individual to kind of integrate them into your into your personal workflow is uh is largely underestimated. I mean, especially journalists, once you've worked for ten years in a certain way and all of a sudden there comes this this thing, this alien thing. which may do some things better than you do and you have to integrate is difficult. And the other thing is journalists are just time poor. So if you force them to kind of move over to some buffet of tools or some other website, you lose them. And so there we're trying to do is integrating the tools right where they work. So a lot of people at the Economist writing Google Docs So we're building kind of tools into Google Docs if they want to kind of do a style check. The idea is to have two clicks, do it with an extension, and I hope that will work. But it's it's difficult. It's gonna take some time. Then again, if you look at how journalists learned to use Google in 2000 when it kind of became a thing also took a few years. And now you you can couldn't do journalism with without a search engine. So it's also just maybe a matter of time, but I think more what you're saying, I agree with. It's about getting them to be able to use these tools where they already work. So it makes it more seamless of an integration. And it's very interesting. I've seen I've been I've had an inside look at that project that you've talking about the style check when you were at the CUNY AI journalism lab and it really highlights the jagged frontier of these models. Like they can excel maybe in math and coding, but they just are not able to convert and say speak British English when you're giving them all of your style guides to follow those rule books. And so I think that's it's a very interesting thing over there. But where have you been finding AI most helpful right now for the journalism side of things? I mean for us and that was found I found a bit surprising i its translation. So I think translation, text translation is It's not a solve problem. But I mean you can really by combining different LLMs and kind of having them play certain rules, kind of re-m and of recreating a translation shop, you can get a very good even journalistic translation, which only has to be edited. So that that was surprising. Same thing with video translation as uh what Hey Jen does is quite amazing still I mean just uh to give you an idea, so with HeyGen, you upload we so we have the TikTok videos, of course, at 90 seconds, two minutes, and we upload them to Heygen, and Hey Jen translates it into whatever French, German, Mandarin, and then you get a proofread and you can correct the proofread and then you generate the video. And while when they generate the videos, they also adapt the mouth movements. And that's it's quite uncanny. It it really works. They keep the voice and and uh my colleagues were quite surprised when they realized they could speak Mandarin or or or French. The other thing is research. So the all the varieties of deep research tools are quite useful. I mean you have to be cautious because it's only a subset of of sources they they can access. And they make mistakes, but it it does basically what you do when you you get commissioned to story that or or topic that you don't really know. Kind of if you go to the archive, you you read a lot, it takes you a day or so, and then you write the piece. Or do you start doing the research? And that process can be sped up by these these deep research tools. What's been really good, I think, is Notebook LM. We use notebook LM in in a lot of ways. Individual colleagues kind of use notebook to uh speed up the research or kind of load everything into a notebook and then they can query it and uh I mean which I found particularly helpful because my handwriting is so bad So uh this makes things easier. You you just record interviews and you just pop the transcript into Notebook Alm. We use Notebook Alm for instance for an internal archives. I've created one where you It contains five years of economist issues, kind of the entire issues as a Google Doc. And you can then kind of search in there and ask, so how has our position changed or coverage of Trump changed in the past three years or five years or whatever and it gives you very good answers. Not perfect, but it's it's very useful to to do that. That's a shared notebook within the economy. So it's it's somewhat uh knowledge management Yes. And those were the I mean research and and translation I think was the most successful. Brainstorming, of course, is a good thing. So so if you're stuck, if you wanna Five headlines, give me five headlines for this article is quite useful, even though rarely do you use or do I use the headline or one of the headlines proposed, but it gives you ideas as kind of a coach or or a catalyst of uh thinking catalyst. What else is there? What's getting in there is is basically generating short texts, so social media posts that works quite well. even a hundred word articles, I think you uh paragraphs, if you're really stuck, if if you need somebody to edit this, I mean a a paragraph, yeah, I think y you could do that, though one needs to check. So I think the The picture I would paint is the stuff is getting slowly better and you can do more and more. So even the style guide, we're getting there for certain rules, let's say for the five, twenty-five most violated rules, we have pretty robust uh robust set of of rules which we're increasingly also implementing. That said, generally I would say that I mean this is all useful stuff and other publishers certainly were more successful in in in doing this. But overall I think what we do in the industry is still very incremental. I mean if the the big AI revolution is summaries or even notebook LM and yeah it's all very useful but it's not gonna change things much and it's not gonna move the needle. And so this is a case where I think people overestimate what they can do. in the short run and and probably underestimate what's gonna happen in the long run. Because I still think that over time, in a few years, a lot of what journalists do, or most journalists do, can be automated. And the entire kind of supply line. A lot of the research Even a big part of the the writing will be done by the machine in the middle. Can you tell me more about how you're thinking about that within The Economist? And how are you thinking the role of an economist journalist is going to evolve as a result of how you think a lot of this can be automated? That's a a good question. I I don't know. I mean the economist is a bit different because I mean at least we pride ourselves to have really to be the Lamborghini of writing and kind of we have seven layers of editing or fact checking, what have you. So it's very bespoke. And I think until the machines are so good that they can replicate that we may have to wait. But for a lot of journalism I think the writing is probably good enough. I mean the writing plus Some editing. So what will happen, journalists probably have to focus on on other parts. I mean I always compare it with the scribes and Gutenberg. So all of a sudden with Gutenberg, you had to put the scribes were faced with a machine that did most of what they almost all of what they did before, so they had to reinvent themselves. S And I think the apprentice of Gutenberg, Peter Schaeffer, he was he was a scribe and he became a printer. So what where are jobs, journalists, what can journalists do in a world where a lot of what they used to do is automated. Yeah, I mean focus on reporting. I think the more the world gets automated, there probably will be kind of a counter movement of people trying to hide more stuff. And so there's more to research. And so yes. Sure that they're reporting, getting stuff into the machine, the writing machine that that is not public knowledge or on computers somewhere. Quality control on the other side. maintaining networks. So it's I think as things become commoditized and automated, community becomes more important. So the community with the readers I have, the network. And not just with the the readers, but also with the sources, that becomes more important. I'm not pessimistic, things will change or the job of a journalist will change quite significantly, but it doesn't mean that we need fewer journalists. Um perhaps even more. I mean you you never know. I mean I think the reporting part is something that is not going to be replaced by AI and cannot be replaced. Parts of it can be helped, but what we're learning more and more All of that is a human connection that requires it. And I agree with you. I think maybe we'd be r seeing a lot more people, a lot more jobs coming out because There's more to cover as a result now. But I'm also thinking about you mentioned that we are doing a lot of incremental changes and so we need to think much more broadly and how it's going to be transforming journalism. And I wanted to get into the AI lab that you've been launched at The Economist. What's the mission of that? And how are you thinking about beyond just the incremental changes to more transformation? How the economist can really transform with AI I mean that's exactly the incremental thing and kind of the internal bureaucracy. So we're trying to overcome that, kind of do something really vicious. So we're trying to fast forward us ourselves mentally three to five years. What's the world we're gonna live in? Kind of when a lot of things have been automated. How will the future look like? Of course that's very fraught exercise, but I mean we did that, we thought that through, we talked to a lot of people, and then kind of come up with an idea or project that gets us closer to that future. not invent the future fully, but I mean what can we do to kind of substantially prepare us for for that future? Not because only because of the technology we use, but also institutionally. But we we do this AI lab is is not part of our core development. It's not kind of part of the AI development or the IT. It's separate. It's a separate team. We have hired people from outside and we'll we'll do that more, but also internally. So it's a mixed team. It's also mixed t commercial editorial team. So I'm I'm the main guy on on the editorial side, colleague Josh Monk on the commercial side, uh VP of Generative AI and and we work together. And it's also an exercise of getting commercial and editorial work together in a way which kind of before you just had the Chinese wall, that has gone away with tech and with AI will go away even more so 'Cause it's not clear what is a tech decision, what's uh an editorial decision, what's a commercial decision. So you have to work together. So it's yes, it's a skunk works, it's about developing something that's really innovative and not just incremental with AI, but it's also an exercise in kind of trying to, for the economist at least, other organizations probably have figured this out already. How can we innovate in a way that that's fast enough and uh flexible enough? Yeah. And I'm curious, you said you had brainstormed and spoken to a lot of people to think about what the future could look like and where the future might be headed. What are those bets that you are taking about that future that you have thought about. That's a lot and I don't want to give away too much mainly because we haven't quite decided what we'll do. And you'll hear about it. I'm happy to do another. podcast and on that project itself. But just to kind of it was an exercise both on the commercial and the editorial side and we did that together to become more kind of a strategic awareness of what's gonna happen. So the whole issue about being disintermediated. So are we moving into a world where publishers become mere data feeds and we feed into some aggregators like perplexity or particle or what have you? open AI and they take our content and mi mash it up and mash it up in such a way that what users, what what people want But we lose contact with those readers or consumers. We lose the ability to control how our content is presented and how can we react to that beyond, for example, trying to block scrapers or or or something like that. I mean that that's rather tactical. How can we remain a destination for uh people want to go to? And in such a way that that that be kind of commoditized away easily. So yes, so it was that type of exercise. And my guess is other publishers have done similar things. But I think even now we already know much better what we probably have to do if things continue to develop as we predict. And I'm just very curious about the AI lab because I feel it very similar to maybe when the internet came about and that you had all of these digital teams. That were completely separate from the print. It feels very similar to me when I hear about the AI lab. Like it's completely outside of the newsroom in a way. It's not dealing with that bureaucracy. I'm thinking about what are the skill sets That you're looking for in this AI lab. So what's that role gonna be? What are the roles gonna be? How are you structuring that? Let me correct myself It's not completely separate from the I mean, I was part of the skunkworks at The Economist and I was burned in two thousand and seven a project called Project Red Stripe and where we kind of were ensconced in some office in the top floor of some I think it was some uh advertising agency and it was and of course this doesn't work. I mean we work with editorial, we work with commercial, we use kind of their help. But organizationally we are separate. So we make our own decision. We don't have to always phone home to the CEO or whoever. Or we don't have to kind of Fit into some roadmap or something we're quite autonomous in that sense. How are you structuring that team? What are the skills you're looking for? Yeah, I mean it's it's kind of an internal startup in that case. We have a technical lead, we have a design lead, we have a product lead. We're gonna hire some Ye developers, a total of eight to ten people. There's people like me. There's Josh who who does more of the commercial stuff. So yeah, think of it as kind of a an internal startup. And I know these are throughout as well, kind of many, many of them have failed and we may of course fail too. But I haven't seen a better model. And I think the difference between what happened in the two thousands with the internet and now, or at least at the economist is that we have the support of powers that be. So both the CEO of the Economist Group and the editor of the magazine are all in favor. They are in in some ways even more gung ho when it comes to AI than I am. So we have all the support and and I mean it's it's important in a way this technology will be very disruptive even for us. At least it's the first attempt we make. to understand or or move closer to what the economist will be in a in a world which is completely powered by AI. And yes, these things never happen in the f uh the first effort often fails, but at least you you're starting, you kind of you're on on the way to this destination. I want to move into a little bit more about how the economist is experimenting with AI in audience-facing experiences. Because that's very interesting. I think a lot of newsrooms I see do focus a lot on the internal one, but the economist I feel has been a bit more bold sometimes, which doing a lot more AI-generated videos, dubbing those videos on tech TikTok as you talk about Hey Gen on the Espresso app, you all have all of these AI generated summaries in different languages as well. And then I also want to get into the score spot that the economist had done for the June 2025, which was a really hectic period in the Supreme Courts in the US. They're key decision moments. What was that experiment like? Steve Maisie who had the idea. Kind of he had read something similar in in some blog and wanted to re-implement that. And then we did that. And I think it's very simple. OpenAI is modeled and you have uh the appropriate prompt and you ask the thing to predict. And uh that was the first round. We're now trying to build a more sophisticated version where we kind of build an agent for each judge. And we'll see where we do. I mean, but but I think these things in a way are m even more important than translation of video. It's just kind of using using it as as a journalistic tool. to improve journalism to recreate and actually journalists get a hang of it. There's one other project, I don't know if you're gonna do it, but so we have of course when we write our leaders before that somebody's gonna pitch that leader and then there's a big debate about the leader and what we should write, what our opinion should be. And so the idea is to yes, let's do that. And then let's tape this and put the transcription into some model and let the model write the leader and see what happens. And uh if it's good we'll publish it. Though I don't know whether it's gonna happen, but it's it's it's more these things which I think are are interesting. It really improved journalism. And I also want to get into the partnership with Google Notebook LM from what you were talking about. It's a tool that's been heavily used within the newsroom and you have created a way in which people can interact with that reporting. I have been a huge proponent of like having news as a conversation, so I was obviously very excited when I could talk to the economist. But what has that partnership been like I should say we don't have a deal, a training deal with any of these model makers, partially not because we are ideologically opposed. I mean yes, we think we should protect our content, but it it's commercial negotiation. Also I think if you just hand over your content to one of these model makers, it's kind of it's boring. That's when you become a feed. You just feed that stuff. to them and they put it in their model. The beauty with the notebook deal is w that it was a give and take. So we give them their content. Yes, there's some Some money flowing, but that's not important, but we learn to work together. We have some control over how they present our content. Also, there's an interesting split between it is clear on Notebook LM what is our content, what we are responsible for, and what Google is what the machine produces, what Google is responsible for. It's clear to the the user that they're kind of divul different standards in a way. Kind of, yes, you you have to be a bit more careful with what the machine produces, but our stuff is is is economist stuff and you should kind of read it or use it as as you read the magazine. So that was kind of a first attempt to have a different way of dealing with these tech uh giants. Because I mean, we may not like them and they may make our life difficult, but we have to deal with them. And I think that's a much better way to deal. with them rather than just handing over content or or suing them. And I hope there'll be more coming out of that that notebook LMDL. Because I mean you can think about many things. with such a tool. But as you say, it's it's a great tool to discuss or or kind of query our content, uh dig deeper. But I think when I think about all of this, I Think about okay, what do we gain as a publisher if I am going to be putting it onto the Google Notebook LM and think Now, as an audience, I'm going to Google Notebook LM and not The Economist. I might be going to the Economist tool later on to maybe read something. But I have a much better experience with Google Notebook LM. And I think that's one thing I always think about of when we are partnering with tech companies. I at least like the economist model because it's under your brand, it feels like. Still feels like a branded economist experience with the Google Notebook LM versus me just getting something on Chat GPT and the say the economist was just like a data feed over there. But I also wonder like how do we think about Are audience relationship evolving if the interface is going to be the technology company? So how are you dealing with those types of questions? I mean that model of us giving content to Google and they put it in some notebook. I think that works for certain types of content. So what we've done now is is our we have an annual publication called The World Ahead. So they got all the content, all the articles of the World Ahead 25. They all do the same thing for the World Ahead 26. We'll have a public notebook on our coverage in the year nineteen forty-five, the end of the World War II. So historical stuff and then there's something else which uh which I can't quite remember. But so it's it's four public notebooks and then kind of we'll reassess. I doubt that we would cut a deal with them in the sense of here's our content, put it all in notebooks and notebook LM and the readers go to to notebook LM, not to the economists. I think that wouldn't work. I mean you can think about lots of things. You could have yes, if you're a subscriber of The Economist, you could go to our content through Notebook LM. So you pay us, but then kind of you could access content uh of ours by being in Notebook LM. You can think about that. Or you could think about yeah a branded version, though I don't know. how that would work. But of course, it's a given tech. We'll never hand over our content. That's exactly the danger is that we hand our co content to s to Google or the like similar companies and they do whatever they want with it. That wouldn't work. I'm also thinking about a lot of newsrooms are striking partnerships with like OpenAI and Perplexity, and we're also having other ways in which people can maybe get paid for their content. Tolbit has those partnerships in Cloudflare is now saying that you could have if your website is hosted on that, you could get paid per crawl. How are you thinking about maybe that future area of getting scraped And getting paid for your content being scraped. Yeah, I wouldn't exclude that. That's really important. I mean at least with with the web there was some kind of a deal with search, kind of we gave uh the search engines some content. They gave us traffic which we could monetize. I mean that was that was the model with with AI overviews and aggregators, that kind of breaks down. There will be some traffic back, but I don't or f even better clicks or better traffic back. I don't know. So we have to kind of create a new new economics for this. And Google Cloudflare or Tolbit or Pro Rada, these are all attempts to create a marketplace for content, for scraping. And I think that's very, very important. Kind of that's how you how you make that work. Whether it will work, it's hard to predict. It really depends on what will the court say. I mean will the courts side with the New York Times or OpenAI? How will the EU legislate? I mean my guess such a market has to be s stood up, or several markets, if possible, and we'll we'll see. I mean i I'd be surprised if that doesn't happen. Whether it will generate enough revenue for a lot of publishers is another question. And is that something that you would be exploring as well, like crawling and these kinds of partnership deals where your content is being crawled? I wouldn't exclude that. I mean, I'm not the commercial guy who decides that, but I my my guess is we'd look into that quite closely. And we're talking uh we've talked to all of the the projects or or startups I've uh mentioned. So yes, I mean if if the e economics are right, I would say, why not? But it's always kind of a trade-off how much content do you give away? How much do you let people consume your content elsewhere or on our side? And our our strategy still kind of you have to come to us. That's the important thing. I think one of the things that always concerns me is about generative AI search where your brand gets diluted. And that might be something that even though people are blocking bots still content gets scraped, it's still leading to traffic loss. And so what countermeasures are you really thinking of pursuing to make sure that you're still having that audience relationship? So we try to keep the scrapers out, which m works more or less, I think increasingly less. I mean it's it's quite amazing. For some sites there must be more scrapers now than than actually human visitors We do that. We of course look into what uh Cloudflare has to offer once that happens. We do some other stuff. But um I think it's at this point at least it's kind of we're losing the war so to speak. Kind of these scrapers are so clever it's really hard to to protect your your content. And even I mean we do block it, but if you go to I think OpenAI uh chat gpt you'll find our stuff and pr quite recent articles. Exactly. And I think there's only so much that we can do until we maybe have a decision from course at a point. The other thing is of course if these model makers need fresh content. And of course traditional publishers won't be the only source of that. They will be alternatives. But if they want to have fresh content, they have to let us live. And I mean the economist is pretty safe, but the that's we're only a small part. We if to have kind of a thriving publishing ecosystem they have to be able to make money. And good journalism is not cheap. So um I think it's in those companies own interest to to pay us. Exactly. I also want to hit on another key point about AI initiatives in general, which is being able to evaluate what the ROI is. And I think very early on sometimes when you're doing a lot of these experiments, you're thinking also if we should go and partner with Google Notebook LM. How are you evaluating the success of all of your AI initiatives? We don't really, uh have to admit, which is not good. But I mean we started this uh one and a half a half years ago or almost two years ago now. And so if the main aim is let people experiment, you shouldn't start to kind of think about can I ever make money with that? Or is this really if it's not saving us so many hours a day, we're not gonna do it So you can't do that, but increasingly we have to be stricter about that. In a way we've already done that. That said, in some instances I just it's just gonna be uh difficult, difficult to estimate what does it what really what do you say if how do you measure the improvement in the kind of the research search capabilities of journalists. Quality of of their output. Yes, we need to measure that better and we will, both in terms of revenue and uh time saved or increased productivity. But that's not gonna be easy. It's more package. And in a way, some things you just have to do. I mean, summaries is basically table stakes, so you have to have some summary function. Text to speech, everybody has text to speech. So it's not the question of whether kind of does it make us money. It's expected. And you've also spoken uh previously when we've spoken, you think all of these different features and tools that A lot of people who are also building are all going to be table stakes, anything related to summaries and editing. And so how are you thinking about maybe what should you build now versus what should you buy from a vendor? There is no rule for that. I mean I'm I'm more more by guy because I just think many things we're kind of now painstakingly developing will be part of the next generation of CMSs or And so so why should we waste our resources on that? But there are things where I think you have to do it yourself. So for instance, we took broad search in-house. And so s we had a kind of I think we used Google for the search Our search engine, we had no control over what they did, didn't get the data really. So we're trying to build that ourselves, which is semantic search now, not not keyword, which is difficult of course, but that gives us more editorial control. Control of the search rankings, all that. Again, difficult, but I think that's where it's an editorial decision. It's part of the package, so we should have control over it. The same thing with, for example, the style checker we talked about So we have a style book which has, I think, 250 pages of style rules and how we spell things. So it's it's very specific to us, so it makes sense for us to build that ourselves. Summaries I'm not quite sure. Yes, probably depending on how specific you want to make the summaries. I mean our summaries are yeah similar to the ones of the New York Times or uh the Wall Street Journal. I mean it's it's based on these models. But you could imagine a world where you want the summaries to be much more economisty in a sense. So you need to train your own own model. So it's it's very it really case by case how we decide that. My guess is that a lot of stuff people have developed in the past year or two will be table stakes and will kind of migrate into CMSs or new generation of CMSs, AI driven. And and there are some. Which are actually quite interesting. Which ones are on your mind? I think there's something called symbolic. It's it's uh out of California. It's a bit like a cross of Notebook LM and Google Docs. So you can already see kind of what the visual metaphor is, kind of these three columns and sources on the left and on the left and output on the right or writing in the middle or there's another one. It's uh based I think Israeli company scroll. ai does something similar. So I think all these tools will come together in once they're proven stable and will merge or be integrated in into CMSs. And I think beyond all of this technology, what have you been seeing has been some of the biggest barriers to AI integration? Yeah, it's for one, in our case at least, it's the quality of the tech. So certain things just didn't work and uh style checker is one example. That's getting better. These models are getting better. Though writing is I think not a main focus of of these companies. I mean they want to m win their math competitions or have PhD level physics, good writing is is not what they optimize for. It's also difficult. You're kind of how do you how do you decide that? I mean uh coding you can see whether it's working or not. With writing it's more difficult. So getting better slowly. The other thing is institutional inertia. To change things, to get institutions to to get moving, to build something, to give you the resources is difficult. And then of course it's also publishers I think many of them have a certain way of building things. And there's always this conflict between kind of the editorial side and increasingly the product side. And it's it's been solved in all kinds of different ways, but at least in our case I think because the product has lots of priorities, lots of customer stakeholders to serve There's always other priorities and AI is only part of that picture. I think AI is transforming so quickly that it might not be just having it as a side priority is making it tougher to keep that Yeah, and hence uh the AI lab, kind of to break out of that, then have it try something which is more ambitious and yes, we'll see how that that goes. Well, Ludwig, I've had such a interesting time. All every time I talk to you, learning more about the experiments that you're doing and now from having a very wide-ranging conversation about everything that's been going on at The Economist, but I'm very interested on a personal note. What's one way in which you've been using AI in your life? Oh, one example. So I like to go to art museums, especially contemporary art, and Very often I just take a picture of an artwork and then I can kind of ask the machine what I see, what's the history, what should I think about this painting. So I think that's very helpful. Which kind of proves that I'm not an art connoisseur, but uh I enjoy being there and looking at at things. Interesting. I also do that quite a bit. I think the first time Chat GPT's real time video came out when it was at December of Last year I was in Istanbul walking around the Hagia Sophia and just going around telling it to explain things to me. And that's what I found very interesting. It may be hallucinating, but At that point in time it was helpful to just get some understanding. But I enjoy that too as well. Well Ludwig, thank you so much. This has been such a great conversation and I really appreciate you kind of walking us through the Economist's AI playbook so far, what the past has been like, what you're doing right now, and where you're headed to next. So thank you so much for joining me on Newsroom Robots. Thanks, Nikita, for having me on your show. And I'm happy to come back at some point and talk about the AI lab once I can do that. Absolutely. I'll be very excited to hear more about how that all shapes up. Think so egg. That was Ludwig Siegele, the senior editor for AI initiatives at The Economist. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast Is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.