This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Tav Kletgard, the co-founder and CEO of Zettland, the Danish Audio Force Newsroom. that's built one of the most compelling membership models in the Nordics and recently joined forces with Bonnier News, one of the largest media groups in the region. Tav shares the origin story of Good Tape, the AI transcription tool that Zettlund built to solve its own newsroom pain point. He talks about how it took off globally, became a major revenue driver for the company, and what it taught them about adopting AI pragmatically inside journalism. We also get into one of the biggest questions facing AudioForce newsrooms right now. Like what does it mean to build a human product? When AI voices and AI generated podcasts become increasingly lifelike. Hi Tef, welcome to Newsroom Robots. It's so great to have you on today. Hi Nikisa, so great to be here. Thanks for inviting me. Absolutely. It's been my pleasure. And first of all, I have to say congratulations. Zetteland has joined forces with Bonair News, one of the largest media groups in the Nordics. And I think that's such a huge milestone for you guys. I've seen kind of the journey and like have heard a lot about how you have been really reimagining what news can be for people in this era, membership driven, audio forced, really leaning into community. And so it's very exciting to see that. And so Tav, I want to just actually just start there for people who might not be familiar with Setland. What's your vision? And now with Bonnier News, what are you working towards? Well first of all, thank you so much. It's such we're so proud and uh and happy for this uh for the outcome of our of this uh process we've been in for. A very long time. There's something that is that we have been proving, which is that the user needs for news is very much there also for younger audiences. And so what we're building with Settland is a daily news service that people can get true stories about the world from. We deliver it, we distribute it. mostly as audio. It comes as both text and audio, but most of our consumers, our members as we call them, they prefer consuming it via the ears. And really what we're trying to do is to uh to make people engaged in the world, to tell them story that will make them understand how crazy and the stupid and bad but also set that we want it to be a newspaper for young people. But we are super happy that it has turned out that the product that we produce is is just something that that a young audience want to pay for. We also have a lot of older members, but we do forty five percent of of our paying members there in their twenties or thirties. It just fills me with with pride also because it's like these people they need information about the world. And for people who are in their sixties, a twenty six year old nurse, she doesn't have a lot of options and we want to really be an option for her to to get true and engaging stories about the world and in many ways actually a fairly old school journalistic product in the sense that that our journalistic values and and the way how we actually produce the stories is in many ways quite old school, but then we tell the stories in different ways. Why do you think that that attraction has been there for a young audience when a lot of the other legacy media companies and media companies in general have been struggling to get in front of younger audiences. Yeah, that's that's of course something we've we've thought a lot about. I mean the boring answer is that it's it's it's the whole package. It has to do not so much with the stories, the types of stories we tell, more about the way we tell the stories. So our focus is strong on the personal engagement between the journalist and the consumer. And so we want the stories to be told like if it was a friend who sat next to you in your kitchen and told you a story about, you know, this thing is happening with the housing prices. And I think this would really be interesting for you a not so buttoned up way of telling things in. And it it has to do with the way the stories are told. It also has a lot to do with with the tone of voice. It has to do with the design of the interface and it has a lot to do with the distribution channel. The thing where we have been doubling down on audio for the past like ten years almost. We can see that that appeals a lot to a younger audience and and it's it's just an awesome way to to consume the type of journalism that we produce. So and I think and we can see just that. that uh it's even more popular among the younger parts of our audience than it is with the uh among the older. So a lot of reasons, but the whole package has has turned out to be a pretty a pretty good product for a younger audience. And it's so interesting to hear about all of this and just to s actually understand. the innovative culture, I would say, that it seems like Zetland really has, because that's actually driven for you to actually not just reinvent news for your readers, but also building one of the most widely used and successful AI transcription tools in the world, which is good tape. And the fact that as a media company in Denmark was able to build that out is really speaking to the capabilities that actually media companies are able to also be able to create these tech products. And so Can you take us back to the beginning of how did how did Zettlund even build good tape? How did a media company build a tech product? Yeah, yeah, I'd love to. So it really started with a need that I think many news organizations uh haven't had, which was uh we were spending so much time You know, our journalists were spending so much time each week basically being robots sitting there with headphones on and typing into their keyboard, the manuscript, and then they kind of had to spend two hours first transcribing. And so that was a like a totally top of mind need for us. And we had been testing out several solutions over the years and the problem is that Danish is a s very small language and nobody was investing in Danish. So it was not only that it didn't really work. It sort of like didn't work at all. It was like totally useless what was out there in Danish. One of our developers who was working on the news product, he discovers a commit on on GitHub. Like just a few hours after it it happened and and that was that was openai uh come whisper. And in the description it said This model will actually be able to understand audio and turn it into text also in non-English. And so he was like, hmm, that might be interesting. Let's test it out. Yeah, and so he built just like a a very small uh prototype over a weekend and then he asked the newsroom if someone had a recent interview that they they needed to transcribe. And one of our journalists uh hesitantly sent him one because he had you know, we had been testing these things forever and it never works. So yeah, yeah, okay, but here is a sound file you can you can and then he sends it back next morning And then I very vividly remember I me s being very early one morning in the office and the door like slams open and in comes this journalist like running. yelling, you know, stop everything, allocate all resources to this project that Jacob is is working on because it's like it's magic. It works. And that of course sparked my interest. And then, you know, a very long story, very short, was that we were like, okay, we we need to build this product for ourselves. And then when we did it, I Realized that this is an open source model. We can actually uh distribute this. We we can actually put it on our own servers and and distribute it to other people who have the same need. And so we wrote out to um just two or three tweets to the Danish media industry and in a matter of almost like in a matter of minutes people were replying back. What is going on? This is like this is magic. It works. What what happened? And then we were like, okay, there might be a product here that's that someone would would want to pay for. And so we we built it out fairly quickly and and and gave it a monetization model. Took off and grew from there. That sounds So exciting with the sense that you can see immediately it solves somebody's need and you saw that that product need there and you started to build it out. I wouldn't really understand It's not new for Zlan to be building tech products. You've also built your own CMS and those are other products that you're selling. When you're building out your new like AI-driven product. What were like the challenges that you had to experience over there and just getting into the consumer business? Because it was not just, I would say, like a B2B business. Good tape is also like a B2C business. Anybody can buy it. So how what was that transition like Yeah, I I would say it for us it always starts with the user needs and as you said this was easy because this was our user needs. It was actually my As the CEO have said that it was my user need, I really needed this product for the newsroom and I would be the one that the sales people would call and say, do you want to buy my new thing? And of course, as you mentioned, we have a relatively large product part of the company. I mean we we're a fairly small company, but it's relatively big, and that also meant that we could allocate resources. We could kind of we work very agile and and we could say, okay, this might be you know a very, very interesting product. Let's take you know, whatever resources out for whatever month months and let's start building that. Then we we set out some hypotheses. And I believe we had like three or four hypotheses that we wanted to to prove. And the first was Are we the only one who are struggling with automating transcriptions? And that was fairly we fairly quickly found out no, we're not the only ones. It's it doesn't work for people. And then the second one was, is there actually a need outside of of Denmark? Like in the very beginning we were like we had to ask, you know, do people in Italy even transcribe? We didn't, you know, we had to kind of prove that hypothesis. And uh and sure enough, yes, of course, journalists uh do transcribe. And then of course there was the the willingness to pay. Is this something that actually solves a need that is big enough for there to be a willingness to pay? And and we also proved that fairly fast. Then what happened was of course that we thought this was a product for journalists because that was the need we knew from ourselves but very very quickly we we figured out Yeah, but but there's also like, you know, researchers, students, business consultants, even like psychologists or like there's so many professional people who who are using this in their daily work And so the product is is much bigger than we actually, or the the market is much bigger than we thought. And then we really figured out that we don't know how to sell B2B products. We are a newspaper, we we sell to to private consumers. Let's try selling this as if it were a B2C product. So we basically just started making people use it. And then we figured out, okay, if five people in the same newsroom they're using the same transcription tool, well chances are that they will ask their bus. to put on a credit card. And that was really z the strategy. I would say that is still the strategy. Because calling whatever central offices that buy software, that's you know, forget it. It'll take months and months and months. But just making people use it and really proving the value. That's what we know how to do. And so that's what we did. That also meant that we we didn't really have to change the product because This is all about getting as fast as possible to the wow moment. And what we were able to do was to just get people to the wow moment in a matter of seconds. Just get them on the front page, make them find an audiophile on their computer. And just let them try it because people will drop their jaw when they actually experience the quality of automatic transcriptions for the first time. And really that's what we're still doing because the quality just, you know, proves the case. And I think that's what I love about the story about Good Tape and Zettland and the fact that Zettland built it because A lot of problems that we solve in the newsrooms and that we face are also things that people in other industries, other professionals are facing. But I think one of the biggest power that newsrooms have is that we have such high quality data. that well technology companies are building off of, but data is the fuel for AI, so why don't we start building it? Yeah, and another thing I think is interesting that we have is that we have brand. So when we're talking to for instance you know, business consultants, they will tell us, I just want to use whatever tool the journalists are using because I know that journalists they are the ones who are good at interviewing. So I'm just a business consultant. I don't know how to interview. So I want to use the same tools at the as the journalists. So for us it was actually a pretty good, you know, branding exercise to say, well, we are built for journalists, but available for anyone who wants to use it. And I think sometimes we also as an industry look at ourselves like I think sometimes we're too humble. We're working really as you say with with like high quality. We are so much into to source protection. So for us it's not just GDPR, yeah of course, but that's table stakes. It's also like really source protections. It cannot leak. It's you know we have to have the highest the highest standards of of data protection. And that's not a given in all industries. And and so and I think people know that. That's what we've been experiencing. That people are like, okay, if it's good enough for journalists, it's definitely good enough for me. And I think that privacy part is such a key thing for AI products and that's why it That's one thing that makes Zettland, I mean, good tape stand out over there. It's privacy first is really the mandate over there. But then also you've fine-tuned it to work for the Danish language. And then you found a lot of different other languages as well and started to fine-tune that. Can you describe a little bit more about what that process has been like? Yeah, of course I think three years ago if you just or like two and a half years ago if you just through an audiophile into the Whisper model, you were mind blown. Like that the quality was so good. Now no longer. Like we've gotten used to to that. And so very quickly we of course started working with it. And nowadays the technology is pretty advanced. It's actually sometimes not so much, you know, training the models. It's more like optimizing the workflows around the models. So it's it's like it's pre-processing and it's post-processing and it's stitching and it's a way to figure out how to to make speed and quality, you know, move move together, because of course speed is is important. But quality is the most important always. Like if we can improve the the transcription quality by one percent, you know, it doesn't really matter if it takes a minute longer or two minutes longer to to process. So basically that the top notch uh security, always never compromising the data security and then trying to scale this because we instantly got so many hours. of audio just pouring in every day and taking that, scaling that and then you know constantly improving the the quality. You know, we're we're lucky enough for Whisper to be an open source model, and that means we are training it. A lot of other people around the world is is training it and it's constantly being better. And then, you know, our the secret source behind the quality of of good tape is in many ways what happens before the AudioFR goes into the model and what happens uh afterwards. And what I love about the Good Tape story is also it's a big financial success. Can you tell me more about that and how it's with Zetland it's been a big success there? Yeah, again as I said for us in the beginning it really was we wanted to build a product for ourselves and that had that had his own small business model that okay we would save so and so m uh many hours uh each uh each month. But then of course, you know, as I said, we've fairly quickly proved the willingness to pay and and it's been a subscription product uh from the very beginning and that's really going fairly well and and and it's it's it's growing. So it's it's actually been a profitable company for like it almost it's like it almost instantly was a profitable company. We spun it out from the get-go because we knew it had to be its own thing. And then we actually just uh recently as uh as I just uh told you, we recently as a part of of of a bigger transaction deal in in Sutland, we we divested uh the company. So uh And actually uh got a very uh nice return on the investment and the risk that we uh that we took in on in it. And at one point it was almost like three million dollars that a good tape was making and That was quite a big fraction of like Zettland's overall revenue as well, right? Yeah, so in the process of of establishing good tip, we've also Done a number of other things we've we've opened in in new countries in in Finland. And so just remembering back like when we started Good Tape Set Down was just quote unquote a a newspaper in Denmark. And then came good tape that uh contributed to our revenue and then came the Finnish market that contributed to our revenue. And now is just a good time for us to divest that and say, okay, we we did a good investment. and uh and now it's up to someone else to make uh make it grow uh even bigger. I think it there's no doubt that that there's a very, very big potential. in good tape and um there's a whole market for that where it it's just it needs uh venture capital and we are not venture capitalists we we are not uh able to invest what it takes to uh to fulfill uh everything that good tape uh can do. And so now along the way building good tape, what did that teach you about using AI and journalism? How has that translated into the newsroom? Yeah, it's I mean that's an interesting question because we launched the day before the first version of ChatGPT. And that uh that meant that already when when the whole hype was building around ChatGPT, we were We were working with it. Like in our office we were working with figuring out what is this thing called hallucinations. How do you actually what is an AI model and and all of these things? So So there was a lot of organizational learning that actually happened very fast, sort of like by coincidence, because we were like just like talking over about these things over lunch every day and and we're like Super interested in it. Then regarding how did they that actually spread into the rest of of the organization? I think it it spread in the way that we've always been like very pragmatic about AI and it's been very obvious for us that something like transcriptions, well that is kind of just a very, very obvious use case and this big evil thing called AI, well, it can solve that use case and it can make journalists lead happier lives because they don't have to spend their life being robots. You can have robots do that. So I think it it took away some of the the idea that there could have been like the that AI was was something that was, you know, out for for people's jobs or something. We've never had that feeling here and I think that has to do with us just working with it from almost like day one. I mean I know that ChatGPT was not uh day one, but it certainly kind of felt that way. And so how is Zetlan's team like using it day to day right now? Is that a big culture of using AI across No, there isn't. There is a culture of trying, of figuring, always figuring out how to build our product the best way. We're definitely not on the forefront of before that that Sitland's product is a human product. And that means and it's not about speed. It's really about quality. And it's about being personal and telling stories in a personal way. And that means that still up until this day, editorial output that we I'm not in doubt that it probably will be good enough one day. But it's not it's not there yet. So basically we're still at least from the editorial side, we are still at a point where we're using AI for productivity gains. That is transcription is a good example, but there's a lot of other things that we're using it for. But I think for me the big shift comes when we move from productivity to creativity. And and we are of course in that move right now. We are probably moving a little bit slower than many other organizations because of the nature of our product. I think this connects all to a conversation we had last year when we were at a dinner. Shout out to Ida who had hosted us and we were having this discussion and you asked me this question, which I keep on thinking about. every time because you said what does it mean to be human in like this audio force product if AI voices are going to sound so eerily lifelike? How do we be human? And so what are your thoughts on like how are you gonna differentiate yourself right now when anybody can create an AI podcast? And also this was before Google Notebook LM came out with their first like two podcast hosts that they were having this type of talk. So like How are you gonna differentiate yourself from all of that? What do you see in that sort of world that we're gonna be living in? It feels like that's forever ago, but to be honest, I think the question is still very relevant. Especially we're trying to build a human product that feels human. And then of course a natural question is, well what does that mean? And that is a very good question. For a number of years it's been so that you know the human voice instantly connects us w with each other. It's like it's you can definitely hear that it's me talking now. Well, the thing is that those days are over. And I think the interesting thing to talk about is what does it mean when the when the machine is actually more human than a human being because the machine knows what it means to be to to sound like a human being. Oftentimes a human being doesn't know that. You know, we're just humans. Like we just talk But a machine knows how to make it f sound like like it's really human. So when we get to the point where something that is generated sounds more human than a human actually talking. Well that that kind of changes a lot of things and I'm not sure we're there yet, but we're actually pretty close. And I don't really have an answer to that question because what what we're building our product on is the abilities for people to trust that when we say something It's actually us saying something. It's actually a human being saying it. And why is that important? Well, that is important because Because we are there with our journalistic integrity and we are there with with our human integrity and our personal integrity. And I think that is probably one of the last frontiers. I hate to say against AI, because it's not because we we should be against AI. But it's just the connection between a journalist and the audience is just very, very important. And for us the voice has been a very, very powerful instrument to create that. connection. And when that trust erodes because of people basically tricking people to think that it's a different person uh talking. I can be a little bit worried about what that means for people's perception of humanity or of humanness. It's probably more correct. I don't have the answer and I think there will not be an answer until like maybe ten years from now we can kind of look back and see what what actually changed in our perception of what it means to have a human connection to something to somebody. But we are pretty high up in an abstract level here and I think it's It's really for Settland. That's that's a very interesting question to think about. It's not about how fast can we write business news or sports news as you know, that was the thing we were talking about two years ago. Like just put out the fiscal results much faster. Now it's actually well, what does it actually mean to connect with your audience as as a person, as a as a as a human being? Absolutely. And I think one thing that keeps I keep thinking about is like, okay, what is the future gonna look like for an audio first business for podcasts? I have a podcast myself, so what does it mean if like people can maybe just get a transcript and have a conversation with that? And I become one of many sources that people are trying to keep on tabs of what is happening in the media industry instead of actually coming to listen. to my podcast, which a lot of people are also tending to do. I do it a lot, keeping a tab on like multiple different podcasts because I don't have the time. And then if something I see is interesting, then going and listening to that entire podcast episode So now AI is, I mean, AI has made journalism and podcast not just audio, but also text. And it can be converted into basically pieces of information. combined with other podcast episodes. And at the same time, it can be completely personalized for somebody if they want to have that. And that this new user behavior that we're seeing where Microsoft and Notebook LM generate a podcast and you can start talking to your podcast hosts and be able to apply everything for yourselves. How are you seeing all of that shift in user behavior and what it means to run an audio first? business journalism product there. It's an interesting question. I I think it it doesn't have so much to do with the audio thing. It has to do with with the connection. Because I think when I listen to to podcasts generated by by a notebook And I do that a lot, but it's not I don't have any human connections to the hosts. So for me that's a utility. It's convenient. It makes it so that I can process information faster. But that's because what I usually do is I I I put in some like long PDF report that I don't have time to read and then, you know, I can interact with it and I I can I can play it back. But if I were to have a generated version of, you know, one of Settlers' articles, I genuinely believe that I wouldn't even let's say hypothetically that the actual sound file you know, of this recorded conversation was waveform was exactly the same, but in one instance I knew that it was generated and in the other instance I knew that it was not generated. The value of the letter would be much, much higher to me. And I'm it's of course a little bit abstract, but I really believe that. I I think that sometimes it's you know it's the same as thinking about the difference between you know, art and design. Design is is something that you you use it for something. And art might be just a white canvas with a with two lines on it and you know any kindergarten kid could have drawn that but they didn't because there was you know the value lies in the attention, the human intention from the artist. And it's not to sound, you know, too grandiose, but I think that's where we are with the trust from the journalists. And I think that's also why we at Settland are just doubling down on that. I think that is the value. that we provide. It's the personal connection from one human being to another human being. And I think that's that's what I liked about Z Land is You were really leaning into an audience connection and making sure your journalists know that we're human. Here is the person and really doubling down on that, which seems to have attracted younger audience because you're putting your journalists forward. And I think that's one strategy that I'm seeing newsrooms really do to show that human side of them. And that's been working for you. Yeah. And just getting to know the the personalities and the values and you know to be honest also the mistakes and the doubts and I mean that's what we try and use a lot in our storytelling. Just be totally open about. For instance, doubt, like uh also like journalistic doubt, it's actually a very powerful way to build trust and to tell stories because we want to We want to be there in the process when the journalists kind of decide, okay, what did that source say? But and it didn't really match what she said, but then how how does that really and I you know just taking us by the hand and and leading us the trust building and in the process of the of the actual editorial process. I think that's so powerful. That's also That's what we're seeing really on TikTok when when people relate to creators. It's because they you know they see them uh waking up in the morning looking like shit and talking about what they want to have for breakfast and then later they endorse some, you know, lipstick. It really just works because we connect to them on a on a human uh level. Absolutely. And I think one other conversation that I keep coming back to, I've told people about this when What happens when you don't have clear guidelines on AI use in the newsroom? Can you tell us more about that story of like how you brought up the AI guidelines and found out something was not happening? Yeah. I think we are really trying to build an innovative culture here and and we are very consciously trying to to to do that. One of the ways we do that is by having no rules rules culture. What happened one day was that we were discussing our our AI guidelines and and we were actually in the studio with an audio producer and uh me and and Thomas, our our head of editorial products, we were discussing this thing about Well, we wouldn't use AI generated voices that obviously was supposed to use like a s a certain journalist. Like we wouldn't clone the voices of a journalist. And then the audio producer said, Well, I'm already doing that. And Thomas and me were like, oh, oh what? What are we doing? And so yeah, he told us, well, I I have actually been doing that, uh, just correcting, just sort of like the same way that we proofread our our text, well then there was a small mistake and I just corrected it. And we were like, hmm, okay, that's interesting because we would probably have put down in our guidelines that that was not couldn't do that and we actually already had that in our guidelines. But okay, let's think about that. That might actually be something that we should allow because that use case really does make sense. Yeah, so I think We have a culture here of just doing things and then, you know, it really experimenting with things. And of course when it comes down to editorial ethics and stuff, that that's, you know, we're not compromising with our guidelines. But th it was just an example of us actually, you know, leaning into that this guy had just done it because he thought that was the right thing to do and and then afterward we we could actually agree, yeah. I mean that that was against our guidelines, but it was actually probably the right thing to do. So let's uh let's change our guidelines. We actually also don't call them guidelines, we call them principles because guidelines will change all the time. It'll change every time a new service comes up every time something new becomes possible. So I think principles is more like there are some principles that we will always adhere to. That all has to do with building trust. That you you have to be able to trust that what we're saying is true and who is saying it is actually really saying it. Tell me more about that principles and guidelines part. A lot of newsrooms are sitting and putting down putting out their AI policies and dictating how that could be used. You are showing a really clear example of how somebody started using AI and you're like, oh, okay, this could be a case where it could work. How should newsrooms be thinking about that use of AI? I really think that the principles or the guidelines that that of course should be there and in place and should be communicated and should be discussed, they need to be s open enough for people to not stop experimenting because we have to experiment. We have to be the great journalists that we are, and then we have to to use our judgment every day and and and when something new comes up, then we have to to just think about the trust and the ethics uh behind it because the problem is if it says in a guideline you cannot use chat GPT. I mean I hope that doesn't but then it's like okay well then I'm not going to experiment with that. or you cannot use image generation in any way. Well, okay, well then we can't really experiment with it. But if you write it in a different way where you say, okay, you know, you cannot depict real things in ways that that make them artificially generated images that look like real things. Like those are some of the things where we say, well that that messes with people's perception of when we say something is the truth, then it is the truth. So so something like that is a good principle, I think. You cannot trick people, but you can definitely help people understand things better. And if if that's done in a way where you can make a collage and say okay well maybe these three persons were not in this exact spot but that's really not important for the story. Well maybe then that's okay to generate a new background for for these people. So I think just when you create those principles, try not to be I mean it's hard because you know, try not to be too concrete, but of course be so concrete that the standards are kept. Like the journalistic standards. And finally, I want to understand looking ahead for the future of what this deadland is and this family of products that you are creating, how does AI and innovation fit into that? And like where are you taking the company next? Hopefully innovation uh plays a big part and probably AI is a part of that. I don't know it we don't have an AI strategy as such, but we definitely have an innovation strategy. I mean to be honest to me, AI is sort of like it's it's like talking about a personal computer. It's like, yeah, of course we're using that. It's like well obviously, but it's not a thing in itself. So what we're trying to do is to see how we can scale the impact of Zutland. Denmark is a very small market, it's a very small country. The impact that we can get here is is big in Danish standards, but we wanna kind of grow our impact and that means scaling the product. So we have our tech product, our distribution channel, which is something we build in-house and that obviously scales. But every time we need we go into a new territory, we need to kind of replicate the product. We need to basically start from scratch and figure out who is it that is building this product in this country? What is the product? And hopefully it it looks Pretty similar, but not it's not a one-to-one copy in the other countries that we're moving into. And then right now that is our main focus to see How many countries can we establish something like settlement in? How big an impact can we actually get on, you know, Nordic, European, maybe even global democracies? And are you looking at AI translations? I would love to be hearing all of this in English. We are of course using AI translation uh internally as a tool, as a productivity boost. But we have no intentions of cloning our journalists' voice and translating that using an AI and then, you know, uh using the AI voice in another country. it basically doesn't really fit with the idea of the journalist being a good friend sitting in your kitchen and telling you a story. That has to be like a real person that you can get to know. It wouldn't work if we uh if we cloned the Danish journalists and and said now these are suddenly now they're speaking Finnish and talking to you in a like a very friendly way. Well that doesn't really work. So that that is not something we're looking into. But of course we're using it internally as productivity uh boosters. Well, I'm very curious. You're talking a lot about the newsroom and good tape and Finally, I just want to hear how are you using AI in your personal life? First of all, in my work life, I'm probably one of the ones here using AI most because I have all sorts of like different things I need to do or like data sets that I need to combine and and clean up. And I would say in my personal life, I think the main thing right now for me is that the internet is changing. Like the way that that I use the internet is just really changing. This shouldn't be an shouldn't be news to anyone. But just remembering like just three months back I would Google things. I never Google things anymore. And that's just a very big change actually in my in my private life. Like how do I get information about the place that I'm traveling to next week. It's just a very different and a much, much, much, much, much, much better experience that I get now from using whatever I use, Gemini or Perplexity or what I use to kind of just understand and basically just use the internet, find the products that I need to uh to consume on the internet. You know, just remembering six months back. I feel like there were so many ads that I was seeing all the time and I hate ads. I don't want to look at ads for like shoes when I'm actually looking for information about what's going on in Kathmandu. I feel like that has really improved, which of course, you know, leads us to the the to the problem of business models and we could have had an entire episode probably about on this show about What does this mean for the newsroom business models? Again, Settland, we don't run any ads and I think it's wrong. It's not the best way to monetize uh news. But of course, I mean that goes for the whole way that the internet works and I think that's I often say to myself, what a crazy time to be alive. Like when the internet something that is so important for me and my personal life in my uh whatever life. And it's just really, really changing much faster than I've seen it do before, to be honest. It's an exciting time, but it's also the pace at which can be scary. That's of course that's what we always say, right? But it to me that's amazing. I love it. I I love being able to think back three months and I'm like, oh well This pretty big part of my life just worked totally differently. Three months ago. I think that's that's great. Of course as a business person it's it's scary because you don't know what will happen in three months But um personally I I really uh I enjoy it and I I think I think what's going on is wonderful. I think we're delivering user experiences that are so much better than we were a year ago. And that's That's awesome. It's such an exciting time to be working in this space. It is. Well, Tav, thank you so much for joining me on the podcast. And I've been so inspired, as I had said. hearing about Zlen's model, the good tape business that you've created that was such a big revenue driver to the business. And it's just fascinating to see a newsroom think so innovatively and actually drilling down to connection to their communities and building that in this world of AI and really thinking differently about the future for news organizations there. So thank you so much for joining me on the podcast have. Thank you so much for following us and uh thank you for a wonderful conversation. I really enjoyed that, Nikita. That was Kav Kletgaard, the co-founder and CEO of Zettland. To stay up to date with the newsroom robots. Podcast, sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.