This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Cheryl Phillips. She's the founder and co-director of Big Local News at Stanford University. It's a data sharing platform and collaborative project that helps support local journalism. Cheryl also co-founded the Stanford Open Policing Project and is a leading member of the Community Law Enforcement Accountability Network. where she's helping lead national efforts to use AI to analyze police misconduct records. In this episode, We dive into how Cheryl and her team are using AI to strengthen accountability reporting from spotting patterns and public records and meeting agendas. to building open source tools that make complex data easier for local newsrooms to work with Well, welcome to Newsroom Robots. I'm really excited for this conversation about AI and local news today. Thanks. It's great to be here. Cheryl, I think we all know how local journalism has been having a lot of challenges and facing huge challenges. You have shrinking staff. limited budgets, lots of data that you have to sift through and actually just goes completely unreported. And so I've been very interested in seeing how AI can be helping over there. And I know a lot of your work has been doing that to just help reporters uncover faster stories and analyze all these complex records. So I'm very excited to understand more about big local news which has really been at the forefront of all of this movement over there and you've been working on a lot of exciting tools. So I wanna get started and kick things off by just Giving us a brief understanding of the big local news initiatives and the several different types of projects that you've been currently looking at and working on. So big local news is something that I kind of pitch even before I came to Stanford as something uh as a project I wanted to focus on and it so It's really centered about around lowering the cost of doing accountability journalism, especially for local newsrooms, which as we know are resource strapped. So in the first week of March 2020, which we all know was the start of the pandemic in the US, we actually launched our data sharing platform, which allows folks to share data and also download and use data or analyze data straight from our platform that you know we collect or collect in p collaboration with a lot of other folks. So that was kind of the root of it and we've since expanded to really try to build in news detection. and automated automation tools, again with the the main focus of being how can we use algorithms and tools to lower the cost of producing strong accountability journalism. And with that, one of the biggest pain points I'd say for local journalists is also like keeping on top of all of the public records, meeting agendas, government databases. And your team has been working on making those tools easier. And one of the ones that I've come across has been Agenda Watch. So can you give us an understanding of like What agenda watch is and how did that come about? Sure. So a agenda watch, as we know, in the local newsroom, w a reporter today might have to cover 20 cities, whereas, you know, 15 years ago it might have been one or two And it's really hard to keep track of what's happening at that local level. One of the ways journalists do it is they check the agenda for uh, you know, or the minutes of a of a local government, a city or a county or school board, things like that. Sir Dar Tumgoran, who co-teaches with me here at Stanford, had a computational class where the a team looked at could they scrape the agendas and minutes in a way that would be scalable. So not just one agency, but many, many agencies. And it turns out that you can do that because these agencies often contract with just a handful of platform companies. So by targeting the platform companies, we can grab these public and open records and put them into one kind of corpus that allow us to look across them for patterns. and to also search them for kind of possible news detection. We've done a lot of really interesting things in terms of experimenting with what the possibilities are everything from uh the video and audio of the of the meetings to really being able to parse through some of the topics that come up in agendas and minutes. And so how can you describe how that tool works right now for a journalist who is wanting to uncover data from it? Sure. Well right now I would say it's a beta site, but we're about to scale it up. There are probably a couple hundred local governments in there right now. But you can search for your agency or you could search for an issue like, you know, homelessness or, you know, maybe pedestrian or housing or something like that and rent control. And any agendas or minutes that mention that will come up. It's pretty much keyword search right now, but our plan is to make it kind of build in a knowledge graph that will allow people to really use a generative AI to leverage what we can find out of it. So that the AI tool is is basically we build some models that go and look for anomalies or patterns and then return that back. depending on what the journalist is interested in. I mean in if we think about it from the perspective of if I'm a local reporter, I don't know anything about using AI, but if I could just even annotate a few agendas or minutes and then put those into the system, then the AI can use those annotations to build a model that will be perfect for me. So that then I'm getting email alerts of, hey, this thing popped up and it seemed to be something that you annotated that you were interested in. So, you know. It just makes life a lot easier in terms of trying to figure out where your stories are. Yeah. And can you talk a bit more about just like what the development process so far has been like? You're having a beta site, but Creating an AI product is never a straightforward process. So what has that been like? I've gotta say right now I would the the AI is is limited, it's much more building the infrastructure, the pipe, the kind of the pipes of the the system to be able like we have a very robust scraping infrastructure. That allows us to basically we're about to bring on a new a new engineer and the goal is then we'll start toggling on all of these sites that we know we can scrape because the we've built scrapers for that particular type of agency and platform. And so we just start toggling them on in week specs we'll have about 3,000 agencies this in the next six months. But so it's very much been about that. Trying to figure out how we can use AI or or kind of more machine learning to analyze things has been experimental so far. And but really promising. So for example, we had one class here at Stanford looked at the at the audio. We were the hypothesis was If somebody yells in a meeting, does that detect news? Is there something newsworthy happening if there's shouting? So that's what the class did. They looked at that and they broke up everything into like I want to say eight-second intervals and started looking for, you know, uh spikes and volume. And we the thing that was that was interesting about that was we did find that that predicted newsworthiness. Silence also predicted newsworthiness, which was unexpected. Interesting. Yeah. So that's an example. And then we did a project which we published. where we married the agenda watch corpus of information. We did some kind of machine learning against it with uh contracts, federal contracts data. So we got all the ICE contracts for California. California is a sanctuary state There's a ban against sharing data with ICE if you're a local government here. So we excluded like San Diego has actual physical you know, buildings and things where they contract with ICE close to the border. And just for our international listeners, ICE is the immigration and customs enforcement in the US. Yes. And so Anyway, my students and also a great data scientist, Alex Spanger, who does a lot with with uh generative AI and LLMs, who worked with the students, uh, basically we took these contracts and we found Like we we just did basic data analysis which county has the most ice contracts. And it's not a border county. It was actually Santa Clara County, right here in the heart of Silicon Valley, where San Jose is located. And then we were able to use the corpus of agendas to to kind of do some thanks to Alex and working with the students, we were able to identify moments in public meetings, like several years worth of public meetings where city county officials essentially proclaimed that they were not sharing data with ICE, even though they had just inked new contracts with ICE, like the day before. And so that ended up yielding a story that we published with Bay City News here in the Bay Area. Wow, that's again finding the needles in the haystack moments that you were able to do. And so how far back are you taking these agendas? I think are we going five years back, but I'm not a hundred percent sure on that. And when we have the capacity to go further back. if there were a specific project we wanted to. Like that's kind of the beauty of it. Once you build a scraper, you can just adjust things if you want to. Yeah, and I think that's where the infrastructure building is happening right now with the developments of all of these scrapers. And I imagine things like Perhaps there's a particular new new c company that's really drilling in at the local level and getting contracts with a lot of different agencies. And maybe it's something that might be, you know, of note, newsworthy in some way, like I'm thinking jail contracts or video surveillance in jails or and you know, in jail meetings or things like that. If you can find that there's this like pattern of incr you know lots of new new contracts going across the US, then you have both a local story and a and a regional or national story. Yeah, that's what's so interesting about this tool when you were talking about it. It's not just looking at the meeting counts, the agendas and looking at all of these transcripts, but it's also comparing that and Linking it to data beyond just that. It helps the local journalists especially put things into context. How many times have you written a story that says, you know, you say, hey, this this county is gonna do this thing, and your editor will be like, well Are we alone in that? Are we one of many? Are we the leader in that? Well, this will help you figure that out. That's exciting. And you've also been working on tools to help journalists who are not data experts like look at financial reportings and understand that. A tool called Data Talk. Can you talk more about how that has been helping, especially for the election coverage last year? Yep. So Data Talk actually comes out of we we partnered with the Monica Lamb at Stanford who has the I'm gonna get the name of her lab wrong. Stanford Oval. Let's see if I can get it's called the Oval Lab. It's the a Stanford Open Virtual Assistant Lab. And so it's called Stanford Oval. Their idea is to build a knowledge assistant that can basically use public knowledge, use this agent to pull and extract information out of public knowledge. They just had a conference called a Public AI Assistant to Worldwide Knowledge. It was like a workshop where they laid it out. They work a lot with Wiki data. in a variety of ways. One of their projects is Data Talk. And so we developed Data Talk. It was part of a magic grant from the Brown Institute, which is located both at Stanford and Columbia. And basically we took the FEC campaign finance data, the U. S. federal campaign finance data, and there were 10 key tables that we needed to be able to easily query. Most of the time, if you're going to be trying to do campaign finance stories, you need to be a data journalist really or be working with a data journalist. The tables are complex, their interrelationships are complex, the rules are complex. So we hired a campaign finance journalist named Derek Willis, who's pretty much an expert in that field, to help us build the guardrails into the agent. And then we ended up with data talk, which makes it basically you just frame your question in natural language, like for example, how much have Kamala Harris and Donald Trump raised and spent so far? And then it will return back a result. The key here is, as we know, there's a lot of, you know, I think rightly so, kind of suspicion's not the right word, but like, you know, caution about using agents like this. You don't want a hallucination. You don't want to get something wrong. And DataTalk does something that I think is really interesting. It uses a language that Monica Lamb built called SQL, structured and unstructured query language. It's built, it's very much like structured query language, which you use for databases. But as the agent does its work, it tells you what it's doing. So you you ask that question. And it says thinking and it tells you all the steps it's doing. I'm going to this database, I'm going to this table, this table, this table, this table, I'm playing these things. And then it explains what it did, both in plain English, and it gives you the code. And then if you really want to continue to explain, it also tells you the caveats or the limitations to the query, makes suggestions where you might want to add in this table or this thing because you're missing a whole trove of possible contributions. And you can open up the query in a dashboard and actually tweak it, change it, run your new query, save it, publish it to this dashboard, and share it with other people. So somebody else can check your work. That's great product design because you're basically building in trust in your product through that transparency layers that you've added in there. Exactly. I mean Journalists, they do not want to get a campaign finance story wrong. And we want to make it easy for them to test the results and make sure it matches up and and if they need to adjust things. And and the agent is a you know, it's spade it. Sometimes it will it will query the wrong thing because of the way that the person said it. So this allows you to kind of keep adjusting and and get it right. But it also levels up If I'm a local reporter who I know how to use a spreadsheet, but I really don't know how to do these kinds of complex queries, but I can read it. I can kind of, you know, I mean I can kind of understand this just moves them, you know, light years forward in what they're able to accomplish Even even if they want to work with a data journalist to just double check things, which I would always recommend, it gets them a lot further down the road. So it it makes it easier for that newsroom to be able to accomplish these types of stories. And so this was something that was used quite a bit in the last presidential elections last year. What was the impact over there? How were journalists using this tool at that time? I think they were looking at it to try to find the big patterns and the in the donors and and then, you know, not just for the main, you know, presidential race, but a lot of races. I had a class who worked on several stories. They published I had four teams, three of them published. They worked with Honolulu Civil Beat in terms of the published ones, Bay City News, and then the Atlanta Journal Constitution. The AJC project was very interesting because They looked at campaign spending in kind of swing counties and then they were able to marry that. They were looking at abortion issues. And so they looked at packs that had been giving on those in kind of in those areas. And then they married that with ad spending data so that they were able to to really say like this is what was happening in these swing counties and this is the kinds of ads that were being put out there. and and kind of how that all kind of came together. So th it was a very interesting collaboration. That's interesting. And you were speaking about data talk part of this larger vision that Monica Lamb's having about the knowledge research assistant. Can you talk more about that and how you think that's going to integrate with kind of like how journalism can be integrating that sort of vision as well? Yeah, so Monica is actually coming to I have a another uh conference that's coming up in early April called Story Discovery at Scale and it's all about building it infrastructure in support of local journalism. And so Monica's actually going to give her talk there as well because the idea is that Her agent is open source. We can use that same agentic solution but apply it to a lot of different troves of information. And that I think it makes it much more accessible like to journalists or others who want to be able to build on top of it. We expect to use that same kind of software that she's building to use to apply to to Agenda Watch so that we can run that s that structured, unstructured query language. you know, kind of build a knowledge graph and have it go to anything we put into agenda watch. It we're st you know we're starting with agendas and minutes. Maybe we will add any other things. And uh will allow us to query and put into context a lot more information again through that natural language kind of interface. And I think that we can see a lot of fact checking happening this way. as well. I mean, you can hit Wikidata, for example, and and give you kind of insights. I think there's a lot of possibilities there. And that we're just at the beginning part of it, but I think the trick is like What is it going to take to build some of these as models and show kind of the benefits so that other people could will start building on top of that kind of infrastructure? And the fact that this is open source is really I think a game changer for journalism because we don't have to depend again on the technology companies to be pushing for the tool. There's so many things you can do as a result now, building yourself. Right. Exactly. There's been so many different ambitious projects that y'all have been taking forth, and I think one of the other key ones that I really was very interested in and wanted to get into was the police records access projects that you have been using a lot of AI to basically analyze and look through massive troves of police records. I wanna just understand that as well. It's a project that has been going on for a lot of years over at Big Local News, right? Yep, we partnered with the California Reporting Project, which was 40 newsrooms when the state law changed here, I can't remember exactly how many, but quite a few years ago, that allowed police misconduct and use of force records to be public. And these 40 newsrooms banded together to put in public records requests to get the you know these records. And there are over 700 police agencies in the state of California, so you can imagine how many records we're talking about. It's a lot And they come in a variety of formats, but often PDFs, audio, and video. Not organized particularly well. So we have a trove of information that we have to then organize. And then we have to be able to extract information out of there. And it's too much. It's too much for a person to be able to do. It would take us years to be- We you know we've certainly tried the manual approach. But it and I'll I'll just say we work with now we work with the Berkeley Institute for Data Science and we work with the Berkeley Investigative Reporting Program, Big Local News. UC Irvine has a law clinic. We work with a lot of other community groups, ACLU and AC National Association for Criminal Defense Lawyers are all part of this kind of neutral kind of let's build the repository and people can then use it for whatever purposes they need to. Our goal is to build a public-facing database. of police use of force and misconduct, but that can be used for many, many reasons, just transparency, journalism, defense lawyers could use it, lots of folks could use it to to look at patterns. So to actually make this work, we've been building a tool that we are calling Autofolio, but basically it's using entity extraction. It's a generative AI tool that is trying to to extract things like what kind of weapon was used, who used the weapon. Well, what are the police officer names that were involved in this incident? And it's, you know, it's not these are not easy problems. to solve because there's a lot of nuance and context in these PDFs. And so it's still a work in progress. I think we're making a lot of progress. That's good. And we're starting to have the beginnings of uh what will be again become that public facing database. So and how has it been used currently to help journalists make sense of all of that data? How has AI been using right now? Yeah, I mean I think it's already we're already successfully getting entity extraction out of it. We're also already kind of leveraging the stories that we can tell because of being able to find information in that. Earlier on, like a few years back, I think during the pandemic, actually, we weren't to the autofolio stage of things yet. And we just uh but you could see what the possibilities are. We did I did a project with Berkeley. that we published about Bakersfield police using batons and break often breaking bones. And so we found 34 instances where Bakersfield police broke. I think it was 31 or 34 instances where they broke people's bones when they used a baton. And it was, you know, and then that follow we ended up doing another follow-up story about how the police dealt with folks with mental health issues in Bakersfield We were able to do that one agency because we had a bunch of students working on that project out of a class. But if we want to scale that up and do that across the whole state, we need AI. We need to be able to extract that out of, you know, using our generative AI tools. And so I think that's the next step. And we've already done some stories that have kind of leverage some of these AI technologies, I think, to to try to get there that kind of really looked at use of force and some of the patterns, things like dog bites or particular types of holds and things like that. It's I I want to say it's probably been more traditional data journalism, but it's certainly the the tools that we're using to extract. have been useful and are continuing to grow every day in terms of their usefulness. I think, you know, so I it's a work in progress, I guess. I mean the potential is actually quite exciting in the fact that we uh the amount of accountability reco- reporting that can now be done at scale because the infrastructure is already there and it's all about adding these extra tool sets to it The idea is that eventually we could have a federated system that you know, assuming we someday get the funding for it, that you know, uh there could be a federated system. The group that has put this all together is called the Community Law Enforcement Accountability Network and it has members like Berkeley, Big Local News, a variety of places at Berkeley, Barry Sheck who founded the Innocence Project, then the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. But the idea is like, you know, Maryland has has similar l laws that have opened up use of force and police misconduct records. New York State has, New Orleans has, Chicago. There's a lot of places where if we could kind of almost build a plug-and-play system where people could could finally look at that wandering officer problem and really be able to track, you know, this person was involved in three use of force incidents here. and then left that agency and is now, you know, three states away doing the same thing. It's exciting because the possibilities when you can do at such large scale investigative projects and for you you've been doing these large scale collaborations as well to create these um infrastructures. But I think at some points also you've also been able to create smaller AI-driven automation tools to help with uh tracking in other different aspects and slackbots that we've been working on. Right. Yes. But before we leave policing, I want to just say one more thing about it. I think one of the most promising things about AI tools with these records are being able to look and use the video in a more, you know, like it's just an overwhelming amount of video. and being able to extract meaning from all of these videos. I tried it a couple years ago and we didn't it it was kind of too hard of a problem, but we're getting there because the tools keep improving and I think that that will be really interesting. Have you been uh playing around with Gemini for that? Gemini's the latest models that have been coming out from that? I have not, but the folks at the Berkeley Institute for Data Science have, yes. So it's just super great at pinpointing when certain things happen. But yeah, I'm very excited by the possibilities of what can happen with Gemini's. Yeah, I think the possibilities are just so much better. Like we tried this a few years back and ended up doing kind of a pretty much uh narrower story because it was just we just weren't quite there yet. But yeah. We'll get there. Exciting. But you're right about the Slack and the automations. Like we uh scrape all the layoff notices across the country. We can get it for forty four states. So It's part of a federal act called the Warren Act that if you have either fifty or a hundred employees depending on the state, you have to give a sixty-day notice of a layoff. So we just built a scraping system that grabs all of that And we put the the file, the data file, it's a CSV file, comma, separated values, for those who who don't know what that means. And we put that into our big local news platform. Anybody can grab it. It's open. They could do whatever they want to with it. We put it in there every day. But we also pipe news detection alerts in Slack channels that are based by geography. So, you know, we have a channel for KQED Radio in California. We have a channel for the Baltimore Banner. Baltimore banners done, I want to say, three or four stories in the last months just on contractor companies that had a lot of business with USAID who've now had to have massive layoffs as a result of the changes in the federal government. And they they were, you know, alerted to those because they follow, because they subscribe to this Slack channel. Wow. And how can newsrooms subscribe to that Slack channel? So they have to become a data plus member of Big Local News. And so we have a kind of a sliding fee and we we go all the way from we'll give you our what we call our news bots All the way up to we'll give you data, journalism, mentoring, support, and training. So news bots at the low end and kind of regular trainings that we do anyway, and then you know, kind of more like we'll work with you on our on your project. Like we worked with the New York Times Investigative Reporting Fellowship, so the Baltimore Banner, New York Times. And Big Local News just recently did a project where we looked at fatal overdoses, drug overdoses, and we found there was this one cohort of older black men who like over the years have always died at higher rates, overdosed at higher rates than anybody else. There's this one cohort of older black men aged from fifty one to seventy. And it wasn't happening everywhere. It was happening in like industrial cities and port cities, but not everywhere. And so we, you know, we did this big story with the New York Times and the Baltimore banner. We did a couple of stories with the banner, but then we took that same data. And we processed it and turned it around and then reached out to, I want to say it's about 11 other newsrooms that had the same cohort so that they could report it out for their community. And so that's the kind of like the high end of the of the big local news data plus models. Interesting. And I think with all of these different AI tools, they're powerful, but sometimes different newsrooms are having different technical expertise. And so That's where like big local news is also coming in and plugging in for the newsrooms to help them out. But one interesting thing that I've come across has been the Dart Matrix, a framework to just help a newsroom kind of like match their skill to what level of AI tools and data are they ready for in a way. So can you talk more about that? the Dart Matrix and kind of like how does how do you assess your capabilities with it? Sure, the Dart Matrix I developed with Jay Hamilton, who is an economist and also the director of the journalism program here. and has really studied this for a long time. But the matrix, the DART, the word DART stands for Data, Algorithms, Recipes, and Training for Local Journalism. So we use the data expert capacity in a newsroom as a way to evaluate what a newsroom might need. So for example, if you have zero data experts, in your newsroom, then giving you a feed of data is not going to help you at all. But giving you some training and maybe what we call recipes or story recipes will probably help you be able to do a story you would otherwise not be able to do. An example of this is we work with the with INN's, the Institute for Nonprofit News's Rural News Network. And so la I think it was last year, USA Today published a big national story about nursing home staffing levels. tied to President Biden's he had given new guidance to increase the staffing levels because nursing home care is very important. And so they published this big story. They put the data in big local news. I reached out to the reporter who did that and said, hey, maybe you would do a webinar for us. So we brought her in to do a webinar. We trained all these really rural newsrooms using a spreadsheet how to take their part of the data, analyze it, write a story about it. So we saw basically about a dozen local stories that came out of that one data set. That's because we gave them the data in a digestible way and we gave them the training and we held their hands for about two weeks. And they, you know, they're very smart people. It's just that they haven't had a lot of data experience. So that's that zero data expert side of the Dart matrix. Then if you go to the team, let's say you have three or more data experts, you want the streams of data. An example of this is right now we are piping into our platform a JSON file, which not everybody likes to work with, but it's basically a structured system of reading data, but it's not super intuitive. of all of the contract terminations going on from the federal government. So if I'm a data team, I'm gonna be like, oh, I want that file. I can tap into Big Local News'API and just pull that out and build other things on top of it And then they could maybe, you know, do something more with that that would turn that back around. The the Baltimore project is an example of this as well. We had a lot of data expertise from New York Times Upshot, from the Baltimore banner, big local news But we released all of those overdose deaths, all of that data at a county level. So anybody with a story recipe, so anybody can now grab that data. We already have ch even has charts. So a chart for two charts for every county. So that circles back around to the people who have less data expertise but might want to do a story that will matter for their community. So that's that idea of like kind of almost a virtuous cycle It increases the impact for the big data teams if they share it back out, and it makes it possible for the small data teams to be able to cover stories they would otherwise completely miss. And how are you seeing maybe now with AI coming into the mix? And AI can help you with doing a lot of data analysis, like you put a tool into Chat GPT. There's another really cool tool called Julius AI. I don't know if you're familiar with that one. I think you are, yeah. That's also a very interesting tool that I've been seeing. What do you see the potentials of all of those tools to help with journalists who are not familiar? I think we're gonna see more literacy. I think, I mean, one of the things that AI is helpful for at a very basic level is just like, here is this code, what does it mean? What does this do? You know, if you're learning how to code, like it's not it can level you up. The challenge is of course sometimes the code solutions you get back are not always the best ones and if you don't really know how to read the code it could come back to bite you, I think. But I do think we'll see it might make it easier for people to learn kind of some of the skills. I think it's a little bit like running with scissors, so you have to be careful. But I do think there's a lot of of potential. I mean, I was just at the data journalism conference in ICAR up in Minneapolis about a week ago and there were a fair number of people who were saying Like, oh, I have been able to do so much just by using this tool and you know to kind of like understand what's happening or to level up my skills. And I think that that's gonna I think that's just going to continue. I also feel like we can do a lot more with the data feeds that we're building in if we use some AI, generative AI tools. to make better sense of them. I an example is one of our tips or tip bots is what we call audit watch. So if you receive Yes, a fet seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars or more from the federal government. You have to submit a fiscal audit every year up into this thing called the federal audit clearance. We pull from that clearinghouse every single day all of the problematic audits that have some kind of problematic accounting flag, like, you know. Y material weakness or something like that. There's really only one flag that's particularly like that's always going to be of newsworthiness, and that is if you got a going concern letter, which means you're in danger of not being able to continue in business But all the other ones have nuance to them and it they're really hard to understand unless you have, you know, done a lot of reporting on nonprofits. or fiscal kind of soundness, you're not going to know what's newsworthy or not. You might read through the whole audit and miss something. And that's I think a perfect example of where we can use generative AI to summarize and kind of detect, you know, like, well, this is really something that you should take a look at. You know, this one, it was just an accounting, you know, didn't dot nigh, and it's not that important. So if we could have an agentic solution there, I think that would be a much more effective news tip. process for for local reporters. And I'm wondering for any of the local reporters who are listening and newsrooms that are listening and want to get started with AI and like these sort of like automation in the reporting. What are some practical ways where you think they can get started with it? If they're using any kind of coding at all, they I would suggest using Copilot. I mean, that's just a great way to get to get started. I I also think Hugging Face is a is a great platform with a lot of open source tools and and tutorials. to kind of get people started. I think both of those things are are useful. Can you describe hugging face as well a bit more? Sure. So I mean hugging face is is basically this How do I describe Hugging Face? Um an open source platform to just access all of these models and different tools that you can build out. through it without going through I would say like the proprietary chat GPT folks. Right. It's all open source. They have a lot of tools, a lot of tutorials. It can be a little overwhelming when you first log in, but if you start looking for the tutorials in there it can be a really good way to get you started, I think. How do you see like you can get started with Hugging Face? Like what do you think are the good use cases for people to look at? building with Hugging Face. Gee, I'm not sure. I'd have to think about it. I mean I just think there's so many. Is there anything specific that you've used Hugging Face for? I've mostly just played with it at this point to be honest. Yeah. But I I'm really excited by it. And then, you know, we you know, I think that there's a lot of potential. I the thing that I like about it is that it is it's like a community And so if somebody said, hey, I tried this and this is what it did. I I you know it's one of the things that I imagine I would uh use possibly to build like that agent for. like the audits. I I could imagine some of the tools there would be probably pretty useful for that. And they have a whole AI journalism community and Florent Dardens does a bunch of work there um on a lot of stuff there With AI. Yeah, he does. You know, and there's text generation, for example, or image text to text. I mean, there's a lot of different possibilities. Lots of just like Very granular tools that you could use in a lot of ways, I think. So another tool that is, I mean, if if you're teaching journalism, which I teach data journalism, I'll say Shard Goel at Harvard. has a tool called ping pong that you can use in classrooms and it basically you can upload into this you know you need an ap you you need a like an an API key but like you can upload your I upload all of my uh documents, so for my watchdog reporting class last year. I uploaded all of my PDFs of tip sheets and things about what is watchdog reporting. What are the kinds of sources you need to develop? And how do you develop sources? And I so I put all of that into ping pong. And then if a student wants to um like quickly find something tied to that, like it will just query just what I've uploaded. So in kind of a natural language. And you can upload all kinds of things and just it's like a nice little walled garden of of experimentation. Going on that same topic about teaching journalism students, you're preparing like the next generation of reporters. And how are you thinking about how they will use AI responsibly and what are the skills that you're basically educating them on? We're a small program, but we have a lot of data journalism classes. Two are required and I think there's probably I'm not sure if it's five or eight, but there's a lot of classes. We have a class on AI and journalism and kind of what's new that uh Georgie Pacheski teaches. But in our data journalism classes, we start them with spreadsheets and then we go straight to Python. and we teach them how to code and we as much as we can discourage them from using AI until about three quarters of the way through the curriculum in which and then we introduce open uh copilot. and we start talking about other tools that they can use. We have other classes where we like data talk was a class. We're definitely using AI in that class, but in terms of just the basic skills, we want them to be familiar with how to use a programming language. and and to query data and and to think critically, kind of kind of get that data state of mind and that thinking process set. And then we introduce the the AI tools that will level them up to a new way once they can have enough literacy to know when the solution is the right solution or maybe it's not quite right. And so that's I think really important. I'll give you an example without naming names, but we had an exercise that I'd like to do in my classes where I basically put up a a question that students had to ask of a data set. And I gave one team of students, I said, you answer it in Excel. And another team of students, I said, you use Tableau. And another set of students, you use Python. And so they and then we basically whoever got to the answer first, that team got a bunch of chocolate. It's always a fun thing to do. But one student, the Python student that one student did not really join a team. And then it said, well, I got the answer using AI. And it was, you know, it was the right answer. And we're like, well, how did you know it was the right answer? And that student then pointed to all of the other right answers that people had written up up on the board. So did not know. based on just the AI, just was like, well these other methods worked and it matches that, so it must be right. Like, well then how do you fact check it for yourself if you don't have these other, you know, things? And so like We want to avoid that, right? We want to avoid people going and saying, Oh, this must be right because I asked the AI and the AI said. And so that's we That's where we try to really introduce those critical thinking skills and and a little code literacy goes a long way. Is there something you're doing differently now compared to how you've been teaching these classes before Chad GPT? I do a lot of in-class work. And when a student turns in assignments where they had to use Python or or something to, let's say, write a loop or you know filter the data in a certain way, whatever, if their code is perfect, I talk to them. Their code should not be perfect. They should be struggling. Especially in an intro class. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So I want them to, you know, and and so we do a lot of in-class work because I want to see them struggle and walk around and say like Well, you know, why did you try this and this is why it doesn't work? And let let's think about how you would like understand what you're doing. And then I want to introduce them to what they can do with with AI. But I want to also level them up a little bit. So they're not just kind of consumers of AI, but there's unquestioning consumers of AI, I guess I should say. Absolutely. And I think that's such a crucial thing where we start to question everything that we're seeing that AI gives us. And then just on the flip side of that also when people and public are seeing information online, the ability For deep fakes and AI generated misinformation is just huge. And you've been working on some a a project over there with the Starling Lab, I believe, to help and create these immutable records of information and body cam footage. Can you talk a bit more about how you're thinking about using technology to bolster trust and authenticity? Well on that project, I think you're probably talking about the one where we use the police foot body cam footage. And that started with we were thinking much bigger and then we boil it down to like just let's just show how you can how you can authenticate these images and save them and preserve them and kind of look at kind of how hard it is to tell what's happening with body camera footage. But I started with the Starling Lab several years before that, working with Jonathan Doughton, where we where we basically built, he had a partnership with Reuters, where Reuters was using kind of a specific text setup to take photos and then authenticate the images. So as they sent them up to up to the Reuters wire service. And so we happened to have, because he had this partnership, we didn't know this was going to happen. that the Reuters photographer who was in DC covering January sixth was one of those photographers. And so we were able to do a case study of like being able to look at pictures before, you know, like the year before you know the the Obama inauguration and then January sixth and and kind of compare same places and what was going on and and distrust and mistrust has grown so much that being able to say, like, is this really? Is this true? I don't know if it's true. So much is people don't even believe when they see it. This authentication is, you know, has great technical underpinnings. It's going into a blockchain. It's preserved forever. And for me as a consumer If I don't know anything about blockchain, I can click on a little eye and it just says, here's the record of every edit that happened to this photo photograph. You can see what happened. And I think that that can help like just putting that out there in a way that is transparent, I think, levels up trust. And I think that that's really important. The other thing that this project did, which we we co-published with the GRIO in New York, was I think it's really important to preserve some of these images. We know that a lot of information is disappearing every day, especially right now. from the web. And we've often we've long had this problem of link rot and what have you, but this information like is critical for some of these records to be preserved and to be preserved in a way that we can trust that they're true So using this the Starling Labs, you know, kind of solution to put it in a blockchain, to make it accessible to the reader, at the same time preserving it, very, very important. We got the video from the police agencies. If and I can't remember which site they use if maybe it was I can't remember which site they used to pub publish their videos, but I can't be assured that those videos are still there today. They you know, after a while they they clear off their records. Even with our police accountability work, the local agencies put records up, but they're allowed to re to delete them after a certain amount of time. So we have to collect and preserve it before it goes away. And I think this is really important when it comes to the police accountability um work. Can you describe a bit more the the technology and how y'all are preserving that footage? Basically, the video goes into kind of a blockchain system and it preserves the it like just here is the like so the the framework We did a whole story about how this works to just try to help explain it to folks because I thought it was, you know, it was just very important. in terms of how we did it. And and it kind of just goes to so what happened was we got the videos, we reviewed the videos and did our work, the journalistic work off of it. And then we handed those video, we processed those videos, handed them over to the Starling Lab kind of technologists, and it's been a while since we did it, but I I can just tell you that we put it into the blockchain. created an immutable record and then created this system so that anybody can then look at the video and say, oh, here's what happened, here's the process, here's where it was downloaded, here's where it was moved to here. The reader, the user can know. kind of how I'm not being technical at all, which I apologize. Norse. Yeah, the the story itself kind of focused on how Body cameras were supposed to hold the police accountable, but getting the footage was difficult. Accessing the footage, using the footage, all very difficult. And then being able to, again, can continue to look at that. information over time was is a challenge as well. The interesting thing about when we were looking at this video, and I think this is I just w I do want to talk for a second about how It can continue to AI, I think, will make it easier for us to build. We did this, we wanted to be broad. We ended up being very narrow because this was done in 2023. And the the technology, the AI was not there. So if you say, I have four videos of this one incident, some agency gives you three hours of video And the incident happened in one five minute patch in the middle. They might also give you three more videos that just have, you know, a small, you know, like a tiny fraction of that five minutes. And then you have to bring them all together and figure out how do they patch in together to build a timeline. That's something that a generative AI tool today I think could probably handle. And then you need to look at things like, they said that this person had a gun. Well, can the AI tell us if there was a gun there? Three years, you know, a few years ago? No. Today? Maybe. Maybe. Um it's still hard. And there's different perspectives from the videos. And so like that's where I think that there's a lot of a lot of potential on what we can do, continue, continue to do with AI. So we basically created an archive, we hashed it, we notarized it. to establish what the content was that we obtained when it was obtained. Then we put it into the that's kind of what we did on our end, like that or well Starling created the archive And we gave them the records, then they hashed them and notarized it. And then we put it into this data processing pipeline that also kind of repackaged it, made a backup, added it to a P2P. storage network and then registered that on the blockchain. So basically what it did was it created an audit trail, a kind of chain of custody that so you can have this whole piece of kind of level of trust over time. So we downloaded this data from this video sharing site used by this police agency. We included not just the video that we downloaded in the metadata, but we included like, for example, the press release where the police department said, we're releasing this video on this on this video sharing platform. So that's not just the video itself and take our word for we downloaded it when we said we downloaded it or you know whatever the metadata shows. But here's the actual documentation from the city. And so we bundled all of that together when we when we moved it into the blockchain so that people would have a record of all of those kinds of things. And that that's kind of how we did it. And you know, it's basically if you if you think of a hash as creating that like digital fingerprint. Like if anything changes, then you know, you're gonna know. That's practically impossible to fake if if you change something off of it. And so that that makes it a lot easier to m to know was this was this real is this the true version of something, if you can refer to that. that blockchain. And you keep talking about this broader vision that you all had and then went on to this narrower scope. So what was the broader vision and how do you think this can become even broader with the advancements My broader vision, I I'm not I'm still not positive if you could do my broader vision, but my broader vision was I wanted to look at I think there are ways to do it in it kind of in a different take, but but my vision was I wanted to look at the narrative text of police reports from key incidents. and match those to what actually happened in the video. So did they match up to what actually happened in the video? That's a really hard problem and I don't know that that's yet solvable. I do think we could do other things. that would be more solvable. It's just the reason I was looking at that is because there's this and I think there's evidence to show this. In some cases Maybe it's because of I don't wanna I don't wanna say that it's always deliberate. I think it's uh you know, police officers get training in a certain way, and so they use st the same phrases over and over again. But do those phrases always represent reality? That's a question. That's something we should be able to track, right? To see. Because One police officer may say stop resisting and somebody's actually really resisting. Another police officer may say it and is saying it because he or she is trying to create a record of it looking like somebody's resisting when they are not I do think there's something to be done there still about looking at that. Interesting. Maybe maybe in another five years or so or a few years, you never know. Can come back and revisit this particular point and it's Working. Yeah. So uh I mean Cheryl there's there's been a lot of exciting tools and projects that you've been working at at Big Local News, but I'm excited if there's anything else That's on the horizon that he can give us a sneak preview of what's happening. Yeah, so I'm working with the University of Missouri and a professor named Mark Horbett, who actually used to be the executive director of investigative reporters and editors And he has a team of students, they're trying to look at at legislative actions in light of the Trump administration. And we're working with a company named BillTrack 50, which pulls in all of the, you know, both congressional and executive orders and all of that, but also every state legislature in the country. And they use a lot of interesting generative AI tools. So one of the things that we're doing, and this has not been released yet or anything, but we're actively working on it. We want to build in basically a bill sheet of bills that are or other legislative actions that are happening that seem to be in response to executive orders. And then using a generative AI kind of summarization with a score that tells us what's our confidence level that this that this thing really mimics what's in a an executive order or challenges what's in an executive order. And so we're looking at trying to do that as again as a news detection. And then these these student reporters will work on stories for local newsrooms so that they can, you know, based off of this tool. My goal is to put that tool out as something on Big Local News that anybody can go and sort and filter and take a look at what's happening in their state. Again, I love the the news detection tools and the breadth of them that you all have been able to create and an additional one that's going to be hopefully coming soon and pushing forward that kind of like innovation for local news But with all of this, I also you've been using AI in your everyday work and journalism here, but I wanna I always love wrapping up with this to understand how AI has been impacting you personally and if there are any personal use cases that you tend to use AI a lot for. I use Copilot. I mean I use Copilot all the time. I just go in and ask questions sometimes of ChatGPT in a variety of ways. I mean I use it every day. I use ping pong because I think it's a really great like playground for my students. I Um and I think it gives them a it's a great way to be able to I take a look at uh to be able to query a a corpus of information without having to worry about the hallucinations and things in this quite the same way. So I think that's a re a a useful tool. Those are the main things I do. I'm working on trying to kind of the idea of the audit watch, I've that's the like a little pet. Like I don't have somebody to work on it right now with the local news, although I hopefully will soon. But so like that's been one that I've been kind of playing around with like can I accurately build a summary of what's what's true in this audit that would be worth digging into. So I'm trying to use, you know, I'm trying to build out a like an agentic solution to that. And I'm I do it in my spare moments, so I can't say I'm very far along, but that's that's one thing that I've it's like my pet project. So I'm excited to see all of the agentic AI solutions that I think you're it's going to be developing in the next few years that we're gonna see with big local news pushing forward all of this innovation, but as you've been putting throughout, keeping true to the core values of journalism, of like being able to make sure we are keeping accuracy, accountability, all at the forefront of how you're using AI. Cheryl, this has been such a rich and really informative conversation and ex exciting and inspiring for me to see the way in which accountability reporting can help local news. So thank you so much for joining me on Newsroom Robots. Sure, happy to do it. Thanks for doing this. Uh I love what you do with newsroom robots, so this is great. That was Cheryl Phillips, the founder and co-director of Big Local News at Stanford University. Stay updated. With the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's SPARP grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.