This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Gina Chua, the executive editor of Semaphore. We recorded this episode live at an event at New York University in collaboration with the AI networking group Humans in the Loop. Gina has long been at the forefront of newsroom innovation. With a career spanning leadership roles at Reuters, The Wall Street Journal, and the South China Morning Post, she has led some of the largest newsrooms through major industry shifts. In this episode, Gina shares how Semaphore has been experimenting with AI, and we discuss how generative AI is changing how we work, how we reach our audiences. and the business model of news in this new era. Thank you so much, Helka and Amy. for the space and organizing all of this and thank you all for joining us today. I am very excited to have Gino Shua with us. She's actually someone I've been had the pleasure of talking multiple times about AI with her and also She's one of those, I would say, global newsroom innovators who has been at the forefront of merging technology with journalism long before generative AI was even a buzzword. She's been the editor-in-chief of the South China Morning Post. She's been the executive editor at Reuters, as Amy was mentioning. And over there is really was pioneering a lot of the early efforts in AI in news and now as the executive editor at the Global News Startup Semaphore. She's also been quite vocal about her views on how the information ecosystem is changing, how news is changing, and what journalism should even look like with all of this developing. technology. And so with that, I'm very excited to welcome you, Gina, and get into how you're thinking about AI today. Thanks for having me. I've had half a glass of Proseco, so we'll see how this goes. This is gonna be a fun one. We're starting off with Proseco, but I think Combining that with AI right now at Semaphor actually made news last year because of Microsoft funding that y'all had received. to build out a tool called uh semaphore signals and build out a format and you know build out a tool to power that format semaphore signals. And you've been quite vocal about how you're experimenting AI in the newsrooms. And I want to just understand What has their journey been like at integrating AI so far, generative AI? Yeah, so so we started off just, you know, first when Gen AI hit, right, which was, I don't know what, two years ago. We just started playing because we wanted to. And at the time there was a limit to what you could do. You know, you could get a uh OpenAI account, you could talk to Chat GPT, but there wasn't that much you could do. I we signed up I signed up for a Po account, which lets you play with a lot of stuff. sign up for a OpenAI account, you know, we use Bing a fair amount. And we just started making some tools. Some of the more obvious things that you could do. We made a copy editing bot, which was pretty good. We made a style guide bot, which worked Reasonably well. And then we made this tool that would power signals. So s the the idea behind signals was just that, you know, there was a news development re other people would cover the breaking news. What we wanted to do was bring you the interesting analysis that other news organizations had done. So you know if you pick a story from today or or from the weekend the Ukraine drone attack. So what you want is you want people to do analysis about it, right? This will change the face of of warfare and so on. So what we wanted to do was have a format that would say you could read that that analysis. It's it's classic aggregation. And so we built a tool called MISO. That's an inside joke because our CMS is called soup. So we have to you everything has to have a soup name with it. Anyway, because it's MISO, which was a multilingual Oh God, I can't remember now. Something search optimizer. Anyway, we made it. And so the idea is you write a search term in, it would translate it into multiple languages, it would go off and it would search in those languages, so you would get stories in those languages. So it would translate it Chinese, so you get Chinese stories, it would translate those stories, it would summarize those stories, and it would put them out. You didn't necessarily trust those summaries, but it It let you sift through a lot more information much more quickly. And the idea was to make sure that our reporters could get a broad range of sources very quickly. So it's you know fundamentally an efficiency tool. You could do it by hand, it would just take you much longer. And then, you know, we came up against all of the standard issues that all the people did when you started playing with Gen AI, which is that the models aren't stable. They break, you build something, three weeks later it works fine, three weeks later it that stops working. You're not sure why, because they've changed something, you know, in the underlying training. And so this was just sort of this long, slow process. And then of course the other problem was it didn't integrate into workflow. So it worked, but it was not as smooth and as functional as it should have been. I think that's like uh post-AI product development. There's never been a linear journey. How's the tool evolved so far? So what we've done now is we've started working, in fact over the last couple of days, we've just shifted The whole emphasis. So now we're working in Google Suite because we're we're a Google shop. So we're working in Google, we're using App Scripts. And two of us are basically vibe coding our way through everything with Claude, which by the way I have a very deep and personal relationship with Claude now, where I'm just sort of sitting and we just like talking for hours on like, hey, and it doesn't work like Years and years and years, decades and decades ago I was a computer programmer for a brief period. And and all of you who've ever program know what a pain in the ass it is, right? You've got an idea, you're putting it down, then you the grammar has to be exactly right, and then you've missed something and you're going back and you're checking stuff all the time. And what you really want to do is you want to take the the moments of a epiphany that you have is like, ah, we should have this do this and it should be structured this way. And the thing with with vibe coding is you can do that. It's great, right? You just say to Claude, Hey, do you think that if we did it this way it would work? And Claude goes, Yeah, let me write the code for you. And it comes up. And if you can read enough code to understand that it's more or less doing what you want then it works. So we've built out an architecture where we have some shared calls, there's shared search service, there's a shared rag service. And then I've worked on a couple of tools. I mostly I'm working on the style bot, you know, the copy editing and style guide. My colleague is working on sort of a there's a bunch of different functions. So one function is that whatever story you have It'll read it, it'll summarize it, turn it to a search term, and it will find related stories in any language you want. So that just helps you do research. I wanted to build a tool. It's it's hitting some glitches because the search tool doesn't pull in the entire story, it just pulls in search. But what I want to do is I want to build a sort of a news literacy tool that if you if you put in a search term again, say, you know, r Ukraine drone attack. You'll find five stories from five different organizations. It will summarize what they all agree on as facts. They will call out what the unique facts are that one or two organizations have. And then they'll tell you what how each organization has framed the story. That's what I think I would love to be able to do. The other tool I want to build is a tool that you can put any story in and it will extract the verifiable facts and it will extract the assumptions and analysis and then it will tell you the framing and that would be another So just make a a simple example, say in a move likely to cost him the election, comma congressman, John Smith was caught stealing candy from a baby. This is, by the way, the cleaned up version of the story I normally tell, which involves other things. Anyway, so you look at that and you think like, well, that makes sense, right? He's caught stealing candy from baby. He's not gonna win the election. There's two things in that story. By one is the fact that he was caught stealing candy from baby, that's a verifiable fact. And then there's the analysis that he might lose the election. And they're not actually the same thing. And I want a tool that can split those two things out because I think it's actually really helpful for the public to start understanding how much of ourselves we slide into stories without telling anybody. And you're sort of deconstructing an article at that point. And that's if you actually think about what a large language model does when right now they're becoming these distribution layers They are taking an article, breaking everything up and putting them into a new remixed into a new format. And in that, how do you think about just the way in which your news, your editorial voice, if you're having five different articles What happens to your editorial voice if you're just taking away the facts and that's getting presented to the audience? Yeah, so so I think I have to put Two different hats on. I have a semaphore hat and I have a journalism broadly hat. Semaphore runs a very different sort of business model and and we want the tools and we want the efficiencies and we want the capabilities that so I think there's when you when you think about AI in a new I think there's things that will help you do what humans could do. There are things that could help you do what humans could do at scale that no amount of humans could actually ever do. And then I think there's things that AI can do that humans couldn't do. And I think sort of thinking through that sort of set of contexts is very helpful. But ultimately, Semaphore is is much more of a sort of a talent first voicey news organization that has a really big live journalism events business. And so we're not going necessarily into this space. other than using the tools to help us build that model up. But I do think if I was at a place like Reuters or or a large newsroom or even a medium sized newsroom, I'd be seriously thinking about how I'm presenting information and what is it that that I as a news organization am uniquely capable of doing. So there's this piece I sent you this morning, which which I just wrote. The Wall Street Journal had this story yesterday about how Meta was working on getting the the capability to build customize advertising on the fly, right? And and we knew this was coming. It was just a question of when somebody said they were going to do it. And so if you think about a car ad, which is functionally the same. It's a car driving through something. There's a price, there's a mileage, there's music, there's, you know, all of that, right? That can all be created to your specs, right? So if you like red cars let's make the car in the ad red. If you like classical music, let's do that. If you like Taylor Swift, we can do that. If you're likely to drive in a city, let's make it a cityscape. If you love the outdoors, let's you know the only thing that stops you If you if you're busy, you know, make a short ad. If you if you like a long ad, we'll make a long ad. And the only thing that stops you from doing that is compute power and some knowledge of you, right? Which is why that That information about you is important. So why can't we do that with stories? And why shouldn't we do that with stories? And we can have a robust debate about what's good and bad about it. There's a lot of bad things about it. But also we should also recognize that the current model of journalism hasn't served a ton of people all that well. And you very famously, I would say, have caught it out saying that if you're in the business of saving journalism right now and not journalists. And that one gets me in trouble all the time. So what do you think is the role of journalists, how is that gonna evolve in this AI augmented Right. So I'll just repeat the quote for everybody who hasn't heard the quote so I can really get in trouble completely on a podcast. Which is, you know, I I think it was at Perugio, um like three years ago or two years ago and somebody said, Oh what about the jobs And I said, Well, we're not in the business of saving journalists. We're not necessarily even in the business of saving journalism. We're in the business of saving information in the public interest and if you can do all those things that works, right? If we were all doctors, you wouldn't be saying, Well what about the doctors? We're not here to save doctors. We're here to save not even here to save medicine, we're here to save public health, right? And so what's our real core mission? So if you think about what we do as a business, as an industry, We ask questions, we collect facts, we add context, we do analysis on it, and we create a narrative. We distribute and in an idea we engage afterwards. We've kind of lost distribution along the way, and I think that's an area we have to really think about. We put a tremendous amount of effort on narration and we think very much about that is what we do. And everything is in the service of what the story is and I love a great story like everybody else. But we're in a world where a lot of the narration work is going to be done by machines, or can be done by machines. And if that's the case, then where's our value on this value chain? Just being, you know, really blunt about it, right? We ask questions and I think it's still a really valuable thing. We uncover facts, which is important, although wood machines can help us. Adding context machines can help us. Analysis machines can help us. But that package of thinking about that I think is really valuable. And at the end of the day, I suspect that a lot of the value comes from that initial work of what are the questions. to the understanding your audience, understanding your community, and marrying those two together. And in between, my suspicion is that Technology does a fair chunk of the narration work. And just to be clear, so I'm not lynched immediately, you know, that's not talking about the you know 8,000, 12,000 word New Yorker piece, which are great Pick up a newspaper. The vast majority of the newspaper is four hundred word stories that, you know, essentially are functionally as close to written by a machine as you could imagine. And you know, there's no reason why in fact the machine can't do some of that. And I will just add one other thing, which is the model we have is writing a single story and trying to get it to as many people as possible. That's scale, right? Because that's your that's a level of efficiency. My my hourly rate is X and I need to reach as many people as possible. And you c I can't possibly write the twenty five version Self stories that would reach twenty-five different people. But a machine can let us do that. And if you think about how underserved you are by news as it stands, right, when somebody a story says the court case, you know, so and so was accused of such and such. And you look at it and you say, well I know that because I read the story yesterday. So why do you need to tell me that again, right? You you're building stories for a mass audience when in fact You want to tell it for an individual audience. And then the other part of it, I would say, is that because we we have been in pursuit of large audiences. We have tended to serve the largest common denominator. And that means a lot of marginal communities and marginalized communities are just not well served because they're not big enough to be interesting to a news organization. My question is, how many murders are there a year in the District of Columbia? Anybody want to guess? Not six. Stream Columbia, it's a big place. Very close. So when Homicide Watch DC was found that it was about 150, now it's about 260. How many of those does, and this is a lovely newspaper, so I just want to be very careful on not slagging the Washington Post. How many does the Washington Post cover? Well, okay. H So it covers a subset of 260, right? It does not cover it. Which ones does it cover? And you can kind of guess which ones they cover, right? Congressional aid killed, gang war, you know, you can name it. Those are the definition of newsworthy because they don't and it's for entirely good reasons. They have limited resources. They can't cover every murder. Why should well They should cover every murder, but why but they can't. And so a whole bunch of families and lives are not considered important by our industry. I'm not talking about the Washington Post. And Homicide Watch, which was a husband and wife team, one and a half people, because Chris had a day job. Created, you know, Homicide Watch and they covered every murder. And that's the sorts of things that I think we should be thinking of and the sorts of things that that generative AI can allow us to do and allow us to fulfill our public service mission the way we say we want to. So it's a long answer. I think it's bringing up an important point in two different sides of the equation that I have is what does that mean for the business of news? Semaphore stands out, and I think you've been thinking about this for a long time, and you're future-proofing the business model by having a live events business and having a deep connection with the audience. But what happens to the business of Muse for the newsrooms that where the article of the unit of journalism has always been an article. It's very scary for even a journalist to hear about this. that it's no longer the article that we're even in control of. That there could be twenty-five different versions. Who does the byline belong to at that point when we have twenty-five different versions of the same piece? Yeah, and there's all sorts of other questions too, right? I mean there's I was talking to a a lawyer friend the other day who points out that it is at this point at least, uh not settled law, but legal understanding that A completely AI created artifact is not copyrightable. And what does that mean if you can't copyright the form of words because right now you can't copyright facts, you can only copyright the form of words you put things out in. So that's the that's a whole interesting concept. But I would I would sort of submit that the question about what do What does this mean for newsroom business models? What does it mean for bylines? What does it mean for journals? That's all the wrong question. I think we have to start with the question What will generative AI do to the audience? How will it change how people come to information and whether we like it or not, which is my other quote, which is like we go to war with the audience we have, not the audience we would like to have. And so that's going to change and whichever way it changes we have to adapt, because otherwise we're standing in front of the of the tide and saying, Stop coming, and it's not, it's gonna come, right? I'm not saying it's good or bad. I'm just saying this is the way the world is going to be. So what do we do in a world where information is intermediated by AI agents? Where is journalism's How do we as a with the mission hat on, how do we as a as a profession try to ensure public service information gets to people and it's accurate and it's it's placed in front of them that they can act on it. And then there's the and how do we pay the bills. And but they're both important questions, but we have to answer them sort of partly separately and partly together. And the other side of it I would say is the the human side too. all of the disruption that is happening, journalism has been going through a lot of layoffs. There's been a lot of tech disruption. Business insider just laid off twenty-one percent of their staff and attributed it to AI in a way. And so I think as leadership and management bringing along, you know the risks that are coming and you have you have to protect the business you're thinking about how do you have this newsroom running five years, ten years from now. How do you think about bringing the newsroom along for this change and getting your newsroom, getting the journalists to understand just the massive amount of disruption that's happening? That's a tricky question. I think it's different for every newsroom, right? I think small newsrooms have different challenges from large newsrooms. I think mostly you have to communicate with people about how the world is changing. And you know, and there's a ton of really smart young people, especially. I mean, you know, it's like Regrettably, I'm old and I'm learning a ton from everybody in Semaphore who's who's much younger than me. And you know, sort of getting getting them to understand where the world is and where it's going to be so that you can start working together to brainstorm ideas that you know there's no monopoly on on wisdom because frankly nobody knows how it's gonna end up. Other than that, it will not be the same. And so I think just trying to get people together and sort of think through how the world will change I believe that news organizations are ultimately going to supply facts and understanding analysis that will be recreated in multiple narrative forms for individuals and that the value is going to be at at that front end and in the ability to create a relationship to understand what it is that your audience. wants in a very granular way so that they know you care about information about this street and you care about information on that street and I can make stories for you That's where I believe the news industry is gonna wind up having to adapt to, but I don't know. I mean, you know, things have If you'd asked me this question two years ago, I'm not sure this would be my answer. And if you ask me next week, I might change my mind again. So I think it's really important to get more people in a room and talk about this and brainstorm as much as we can, make some bets and The only thing I'd say is just do not bet on it being the same, because that is a losing bet. And so what are those bets that you're making at Semophore? So there's some bets about the current news environment. There's some bets I think about how we think the world is changing, and then we're hedging some of those bets, right? So I think I think at the end of the day, we believe that there is real value in in a really tight relationship with the audience. There is real value in voices. and real value and sort of authenticity that way. And so we're not a 2,000% newsroom, we're a 30-something percent newsroom. And we can build those really tight relationships. That to me is a is a relationship that isn't necessarily disruptible. In the same way that I think individuals, influencers, podcasters, substackers, I think they have a path forward because people want their want their voice, they want their view. And so when you you come in and you read some of our newsletters, um Liz Hoffman writes our business newsletter. And Liz has a great take on the world. And so you're not coming to her necessarily for for just the information, you're coming for for her view of how the world is, right? Now that's valuable. Ben is very valuable in that way. So there's that. But then on s on the flip side of it, like we are just experimenting with AI as much to build out tools that really help us, but mostly to just Test capabilities and stay on top of it. And that's what I'm really getting out of it. Yes, I'm building a an editing tool. Yes, we're building a headline suggester. Yes, we're building a multilingual search engine. But mostly I'm just trying to test the edges of what LLMs do well and what they do badly. It's like testing out a new employee. Right. You want to know like they're good at this, you know, let's give them something else. And you know, it turns out that they can write about sports, but they suck at politics. I mean, you know, let's let's figure out where the skill sets are and let's keep testing it. That's what I want to do. This this um sort of story deconstructor that I want to build. I really want to do that as much just to see how much contextual un in understanding And I recognize LMs don't actually understand anything, just to be clear, but I want to under I want to figure out how much contextual understanding actually can do, how much it can extract facts and how much it can, you know, where's the margin of error and how do I tweak that? And what have you been finding so far with your experiments getting them into semaphore? getting the adoption. What has that been looking like with DAI tools? So the problem has been up until now is, you know, it's workflow. It's always workflow. It's always been workflow. And when I was at Reuters, we were always confronted with two approaches. And I and I still don't know what the right answer is. So Reuters very famously spent like 30 years trying to change its CMS. Experiment after experiment, and they all failed millions of dollars. And then finally, you know, was system seventy seven was the one working, which was, you know, if you think about that name that tells you what year it was made. I think before that was system fifty-five. Anyway And they fine when when I got to Reuters in twenty eleven, we finally came out with a new system called Lynx. So you can imagine how many years it was. And the only reason we could get links adopted by people is because links look exactly like system seventy seven, including all of the horrible architecture, the ways you know it was architected Horrifically. The underlying guts in code was nice, but the but the arc system architecture was just, you know, awful. And then we spent the next ten years trying to modernize it. But that's one approach, right? Which is that you make something that is similar to what you have so people don't fight it. Personally, I believe that you should roll out a tool that forces everyone to do things a different way, and they have no choice because the tool only lets them do it one way. But that is an uphill struggle. But those are the two ways of doing it. And I kind of given up in some ways. I sort of expect that we do have to. When I joined Semaphore, the one thing that's nice is I could design a webpro from scratch. But of course now I'm trapped in it. As everybody always is, right? But but it is a real these are really big sort of social engineering questions about how you get things done. Yeah, and I think your experience both at like a large news agency and now at a startup, it's very interesting to contrast the both of them. And I'm wondering what do you do when you are having skeptics in the newsroom and you're having people who are set in their ways. How do you bring them along in that journey? So we don't have that problem at Sever 4 because everybody is really, really young. I'm the oldest person in the newsroom by like fifteen years. And so like everybody's game to try everything. I think it's really tricky. At Reuters there was always going to be some group of people who are really interested in testing things, a big mass of people who are like maybe, and then a group of people that really don't want to do it. And I think you wind up doing a sort of a slow strategy, right? Where you where you bring on the enthusiasts, you make it easy enough for the for the vast middle to just play and you give them enough incentive, you tell them how it helps their life and you know you can slowly get them. And then when you get to the final group, I think you basically change the tools so they have no choice. And that's really kind of how you have to it's kind of how you have to To do it. But I mean, think of all the things that we take for granted, right? I mean this phone was invented in God, I can't even remember when it was invented. So one of the great beauties of Apple and Joanie Ivy and Steve Jobs is that they created intuitive interfaces that you didn't need a huge amount of training to use, and then they forced you to use it because there's no other way you can use this phone, right? And the su the success of this is really kind of the example of how you can build a tool. that makes people work a certain way and they don't even think they're working differently. And, you know, we don't spend enough time, I think, thinking about sort of design thinking and and workflow and sort of the social engineering needed to help people get along. I think those are really key points of the workflow problem, the adoption problem is more of like it's interesting to see it as like a social engineering problem that we need to be tackling into. And I also want to get into all of the wipe coating that you've been doing. One of those um experiments with your wipe coating, I would say or getting started with was uh uh an idea that you had had. We don't know about Jess. Oh okay we don't know about Jess. Jess. Well shift gears into Jess, which is project I've had uh I've been able to work closely with Jita on it's a journalist editorial safety support tool and you just built this out because you led safety built out the safety team at Reuters And had this idea of like, can we create a chat bot that can help journalists get safety advice wherever they need it? And I wanna get into those sort of ideas. You experiment so much with this and You were able to build out think of Jess. What was that journey like? What prompted you to even to start that? All right, so I will do the really quick and dirty. I know everybody in this room knows, right? But I'll I'll just run through my my thinking about what I think. LLMs are. Yeah. Right? Okay. And you've heard this one. So an LLM is a smart, slightly autistic, but very friendly English major. Right. I call him Dylan. He has a beret and a cigarette holder. He slept through every class, but he's very good at English and a bunch of other languages. If you ask Dylan a question, you know, when did Benjamin Franklin die, he'll make up the answer because he slept through History class. Give him a book and you say read it and tell me when Benjamin Franklin die. And he will tell you because he knows how to read. And he's helpful. If you ask him when George Washington died and if the same book it's in the same book, he'll tell you. But if you ask him how many years apart they died, he can't because he slept through math class. So Dylan is an idiot, but a very nice idiot. And so the whole trick is to give Dylan books, which is rags. And so that's all I've been doing. Once I came to that conclusion, everything I did was a rag. Mm-hmm. And so I s I built a rag on some semaphore content so that I could query multiple stories and sort of get context. And it was very good on that. And it showed me the LLM's ability to be able to bring different context to different readers. I built a tool that would essentially emulate a mechanical Turk so that I could put in the DOJ definition of a hate crime and I would give it made-up stories and said on a scale of one to five, does this look like a hate crime? And it did really well, in fact with a lot of contextual information that otherwise would not have. I think the state of journalism around trans issues is terrible. So I built a trans misinformation and misframing bot. And so I put a story which mostly I dislike. I put it in, and it tells me not just what is misinformation, at least as defined by me, but it tells me what is misframing, which if you think about it is actually pretty complicated because it's telling you what's not in the story, not what is misinformation in a story. And that means you can use it You can use the same technique if you wanted to to look at misinformation around immigration or misinformation around deportations or whatever, as long as you gave it the right books to read. And so as I was doing all of this, the thing that struck me over a drink with Mike Christie, who used to run security at Reuters, uh he worked for me doing security, was that Mike had written dozens, hundreds of tip sheets and guidance for twenty five hundred Reuters journalists and and another thousand freelancers around the world how to cover floods, wildfires, what to do in uh you know, in civil unrest, how do you navigate a minefield, right? All of this stuff that would be helpful. And I thought, well, that's perfect for a rag. It's a really big book And there's lots of news organizations that can't afford security advisors, don't have, as we had at Reuters, nine people full-time doing this. So why not try to bring that information to the world? And because It's Dylan and books that Mike have has written, we can be relatively confident that the information will be, you know, accurate. And on top of which, because Dylan is multilingual We can do it in a zillion languages. And I know you're gonna say we can't do it in a zillion languages, but I you know, you start testing it out. And like you can give security advice in Hindi. or or Tagalog or Nepali or you know French or Portuguese. And you think about how much good that can do in the world. And so I just threw one together It kind of worked. And then we realized we needed somebody who actually knew what they were doing, which is why we brought you on. I think that that's been an example of just for me, which was very exciting, was the fact that It's democratizing access to knowledge, something that only a large newsroom like Reuters had, if you look at small newsrooms who were not even figuring out on their own. Uh you famously at Purusha was like you were saying that we just go to one training and we remember and you suddenly have to remember at the spur of the moment, you're going up to a hurricane, what should you be doing? And being able to recall that. I'm trying to also think of like what are the other Opportunities are you seeing for generative AI in the newsroom that like stuff like Jess, the ones that we are also focused on, maybe just like editorial newsroom workflows and generating headlines. How do we Think about what are the other problems maybe we could solve with this new technology that we couldn't afford. I mean, you know, this is one of those how long is it is a piece of string questions, right? I mean The biggest deficit w I mean we have a lot of deficits and resource constraints, but the really the biggest uh deficit we have as an industry is imagination. We're not thinking big enough. There are doubtless a zillion things we could do that we haven't sort of got round to doing. I mean, I think a news comparison tool is wonderful, right? I mean I think you know, and so if we if we leave aside again what is good for us and what is good for the audience. When you think about an event breaks that you that you care about, right? And I mean I was just listening to the first chapter of Careless People and in there she talks about how there was the earthquake in New Zealand and she was desperately trying to read everything and find out what was happening in New Zealand. And you think Wouldn't it be really useful if a tool went out? And I'm not saying this is good for journalists, I'm not saying it's good for newsrooms, but it's good for people to be able to be able to have something that goes out, scours everything, takes all of that information, dedupes it. More or less says, you know, like five high-quality news organizations agree that the earthquake was of this magnitude, was centered here, this many people are currently Dead. May or may not be correct. That is a useful tool to people, even if it is not a good thing for our business model. And I think we should start by figuring out what is good for people and then figure out how we can play a role. in bringing it to them and then hopefully pay the bills as well. I think sort of like a companion to news that we have in a way. And before we open up for audience questions, I just want to sort of understand we've spoken a lot about AI and news and work, but I'm very curious, how are you using AI maybe in your personal life? You said you speak to Claude a lot, so what does that look like? Well, no, I'm not using Claude as a um as a therapist. I I I have a human one for that. So I what I mean though with with Claude is it The process of coding with Claude has been really interesting. The process of writing, I'm trying to write some longer form stuff. The process of turning to Claude and saying I have this idea, I'm trying to say this, you know, I think these things connect, but can you help me? I know it's not. Real in a way, but it you know it has a facility with language that's actually quite helpful and it does pull stuff, you know, together. I've I've managed to say Things like listen, I'm trying to write something and the thing that I really love is this book that covered it this way. Are you familiar with that book? And it tells me of course about the book because it is familiar with the book. This could work. The other thing that has been really just kind of eye-opening, so I have a very good friend who has ALS. He's very dear friend. You know, he's losing function over time. It's harder and harder to understand him because his speech slurs. And so me and another friend at Reuters decided we would try to build him a bot. At first what we wanted to do was to be able to do voice recognition on his current voice, see if we could do speech detects. Turns out to be very difficult because his voice is is is no longer as stable as it used to be. But what we could do was find clips of his old voice and build clone it and now build him a little handheld app. where he can speak in his own voice and what I wanna really want to do, he's one of the best newsroom lawyers around. I want him to do a you know like a five part lecture series and put it on video and have him impart his legal wisdom to the well then we can do it because we can clone his voice. I think it's huge AI for just accessibility purposes and how it can out there. That's very interesting to hear. We have some time. I just want to take a couple of questions because we have a a really sharp and curious bunch of people over here. I'd like to open it for a few questions if anyone has any questions for Gina. She can just introduce herself. Okay. Jay Dixit, formerly of OpenAI. Thank you so much for being here. I was wondering about what I think is a fun question about speculating about the future. We're talking about what humans can do, what machines might be able to do, like the narration, the information, the analysis. And you say like, well, imagine a world where Instead of writing an article for 25,000 people, we can write 25,000 different articles for 25,000 people. Do you think it is articles or Is thinking about it as an article, still a vestige of the old world where it's just it's all static and it's just one way, or is it interactive? Is it like Is somebody's asking questions and the AI is explaining it? Or is it like a personalized newscast where it's a video that's generated just for you and the newscaster looks like high school crush or whatever? How do you envision it? What's your what's your theories about the future? The answer is yes. I think it's all of those things. I think it's very likely to be all of those things. I think there's an interrogatory system. I thought, you know, w way back remember when Google came up with its You know, you could call up and get a hairdresser appointment thing which turned out never to happen. But when that came out I did a blog post about how that would be how news would be. You would talk And it would give you answers. Turns out most people don't really want to do that, but I do think we will get to a point where information will be much more customized to how we would like To have it. You know, we may decide we want to go on news diets and so like don't disturb me about news from, you know, nine o'clock to twelve o'clock. unless the world has blown up, right? Or something like that. Or unless there's a fire in my house. You know, it could be that we l we're we're real news junkies. So like tell me every time something you know. So I think that it becomes much more like a valet. And you can figure out what's the the best way you want. I mean, at the end of the day, what are we doing? We're creating facts. We're we're sort of deciding, I think, what context matters. And we know who you are and we know what you care about and that helps us ask the right questions. podcast, you know, in George Clooney's voice, that's great, because I would not disagree with that either. But some other people would just want to read a long story and maybe that's the right thing to do. We have another question there? John Lawrence from AJ Plus. So something I've been thinking a lot about this week is that I spend inauditable amounts of time essentially answering the same questions again and again, like particularly on like fair use or copyright and I was thinking, okay, could we build a tool or a bot that would answer are these images low risk, high risk, medium risk? and that would essentially solve just the business of giving the same information over and over again, which could obviously be scaled to different aspects of editorial compliance. And I was just wondering, Gina, is that something that you're already experimenting with at Semaphore? beyond issues like a style guide in terms of automation of editorial process? You know it's a really good question. I mean I think the short answer is no because we're so small and and basically I get asked those questions over and over and over again which is alright because I just don't answer them. But anything that is that you can build not just a sort of set of hard rules, but a reasonable amount of nuance around, I think I think that works. I think it can work. And I think the nice thing about it is you can give answers on a scale, right? So when I built the uh the hate crime classifier, it struck me like this is a perfect tool for Content moderation, right? Here are my written down rules about, you know, what content should or shouldn't be. There's a lot of gray area in there. And read this particularly hateful comment and on a scale of one to five, tell me, you know, where it stands and anything above some level a human has to be involved, right? But it just you can do a bunch of things like that. So you can say is this fair use? And it's like, okay, but falls on a one to Yeah, one and two on a five-point scale, go for it. Nobody needs to to worry. And if it's three, four, or five, like please ask somebody. Hi. John Keith at the New York Times. Sorry my voice is a little crackly. I know you both. I admire you both. I'm interested in AI. It's amazing. And when I saw the announcement about the journalism security bot, I went, ugh. Really? AI, life and death decisions. I was like, ugh, this doesn't sound safe. Even Gina, you just said It's reasonably accurate. Maybe that's the word you were using, I think. How do we feel comfortable about that? How do we do that? So let's just talk talk for a moment just about an AI generated stories are really bad example, right? But so at Reuters where we had a very rule-based non-LLM thing that just spat out zillions and zillions of stories, the AP has much the same tools. And you say what's the error rate on that, right? And you yeah, there's an error rate and you can measure it. And the error rate is, I don't know, whatever, point five percent, let's say. What's the human error rate? Right? Now if you're below the human error rate, you're ahead of the game. So what is the error rate on security advice when you have no security advice? The point is what are you comparing against? Yes, is it better to have a thousand dollar a day security advisor walking next to you, you know, when you're in the middle of a of uh civil unrest? Or is it better to have, you know, some information that's come to you on a on a bot beforehand? I think I'd rather have the thousand dollar a day person, but I don't have the thousand dollar a day person. And so I think it's very important to understand what the limitations are. Don't take the word we are not gonna write it as you must do this and must not do that. I think we're gonna write it as you should take into account these things. Which by the way is what All the Reuters training always was anyway. These are things you have to make informed choices. We're giving you information. The bot will do the same thing. But fundamentally If it comes down to it and somebody says, you know, the bot gave information and this information is not really applicable in Bogota. I will be the first person to say that's right. And what was the person in Bogota using before they had this? And so they're slightly better. I think it's really a question of expectations. If you expect this to be American bot that will save your life, it will not. But if we think of it as improving on the margins people's access to information, I think that's a win. I just want to quickly add from like a development perspective, we're very carefully thinking about the design of this tool and when it's going to be used. The other people involved in this Mike Christie, his decades of experience in leading safety, making that accessible to a lot of people. And the other people, Joel Simer, the at CUNY who's actually running this entire managing the entire project and Elizabeth at uh Kentus at the ACOS Alliance, very much asking the questions that you are, John, about which we should make sure that this is not a tool that people are in a life in that situation and are then picking up this bot and being like, what should I do now, but it's more about preparation because preparation is so key in any security consideration. And also from a development side, it's you have so much of this document, you have so much of this information. You're going after a report on a hurricane for the first time as a young journalist. Where is the place where I can quickly get trusted information? And so it's not just the bot is giving you that, but you can also look up where exactly from our resources you can double check that information. And I think that's kind of part of also how we're thinking about the design because yes, very much. Yeah, no. So the question is like if you're gonna go cover a hurricane right now, how many people know off the top of their head how much equipment they should bring or what equipment they should bring? Right? Okay, good for you. But a lot of people don't. So a bot that tells you this without you having to read a zillion documents would be really helpful. But if I could just do a rant for a second, because I I at some point I have to do one. And it's not it's not about you, but it's just saying you know, we tend to look at what we do as a noble profession, and it is a noble profession, and we've done tremendous good work in the world. But we also tend to think of this either we either valorize what we do as a gold standard that slippage from is is a problem or that we've always served our communities well? And the answer is we have not always served our communities well. We have underserved Tons of communities. Pick your topic. Civil rights, AIDS, LGBT coverage. Women's suffrage. Right? We've done terribly at a whole bunch of things. And I think when we talk about what we do and we talk about what we consider to be news and and who we serve, I think It's always worth asking ourselves the question, are we doing the best we can? Are we serving the people we should serve? We are now in a place, in a position, in a time, you call it an opportunity or you can call it a Rolling disaster, whichever you want to call it. But the world is going to change. We have this moment where things are going to be very different, whether we like it or not. And so it is a it is an opportune time to question everything we do, ask ourselves what our mission really is. If we're going to reinvent journalism, let's burn it to the studs. and think about what we should do and can do and who we can truly serve. And I think that's really where we have to get to. And I think Millie Tran at the Council on Foreign Relations. Thank you for the conversation. I feel like I didn't hear a lot about kind of More complex workloads and agentic AI. I heard a lot about kind of input, output, summarization, customization, personalization, but I'd be curious to hear your thoughts on that. And then A separate but kind of interrelated question is how do we think about this for young journalists entering the field and how does their training change? Oh great. Another two hours of conversation. So I do think we're getting to you know we're at an experimental stage, I think, at this point, right? And so we are building workflow tools that are not completely agentic. But we will get that. I think we're not a hundred percent confident of of all of the steps. So I think for a lot of us, at least those of us who are not working in big tech platforms, you know, we're just We're just testing, right? And as I say, I'm still trying to figure out the limits of any individual components so that I'll feel comfortable when I start stringing them together a little bit more. I do think that's coming and it's coming much faster than we expected. I w you know if again if you asked me a year ago, I'd have said five years. Now you ask me, I'm thinking, you know, a year and a half, two years, and if you ask me next week, I'll probably say six months, right? So I think we need to get to that point. We need to at least keep asking ourselves our qu the question even if we don't get the answer. I think the the other question, which is, you know, what do we do about people entering the profession, people who are starting out I think that's a really tricky question because, you know, and it's a it's a question for everybody, right? I mean it's a question for interns, it's a question for young book publishers, yeah, young doctors. I mean like there's a zillion different things. So I don't know. I'm I'm glad in some ways I'm not in the journalism education business, but I think one thing we have to get to be done, how to get information, and how to think about the systems that hold information and how we can extract information. I think that's a core set of skills. After that, I think we just have to this is going to sound them to think about what the mission is. And when I've seen and now I'm going to sound like an old person, when I've seen young people sort of step out and say, you know, we can do it better this way And all the old fogies like me go like, oh, we couldn't possibly do that. Young people see the world in different ways. Every generation sees the world in different ways. Ed Semaphore You know, Ben Smith is is, you know, I don't know, like ten or fifteen years younger than me. And I'm learning a zillion things from him every day because he's grown up in a time where he sees things differently. And then the the guy that I'm working with on coding is, you know, probably about thirty years younger than me. And I learn from him all the time. And so I think the key thing is getting them the sense of mission. set up core skills and then letting them loose on the world and you know hopefully they don't blow it up. Intergenerational collaboration within the newsrooms, learning from each other. But with that I think Gina, I'm going around and thinking about It's time to reinvent journalism, the way you're saying. It's not because we have to it's sort of you're being forced to in a way, and our audience is changing and we need to keep them at the center. What does news and information look like for them and how is that gonna evolve? And what value can we bring to our audience in this AI world? Thank you so much for all of your hot takes, Gina, and uh to our our hosts, uh Hilka and uh Amy. W Thank you for having us again by you and all of you over here for your great questions. Thank you for joining me. Thank you for having me. That was Gina Chua, the executive editor of Semaphor. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy, and this is Newsroom Robots.