This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. On May 19th in Detroit, I sat down with Zach Seward, the editorial director of AI Initiatives at the New York Times for recording in front of a live audience. We were at the Newsroom Robots AI Leadership Summit held in partnership with the Online News Association. It wasn't your typical conference. It was an unconference, an agenda that was shaped by participants, where global AI and media leaders came together to explore urgent questions and imagine what comes next. On day one, the focus was on something every newsroom is grappling with, how to think ahead. We explored key trends, identified shared pain points. and engaged in future scenario planning, asking questions like, what might journalism look like in the face of accelerating tech shifts? And what decisions need to be made today to prepare for that future. And then at the end of that first day came this conversation. Zach and I talked about where AI fits at the times. How it's shaping workflows, and what it means to lead AI strategy inside of one of the world's most influential news organizations. Hello everyone, and I am so excited for this first live podcast recording of Newsroom Robots. I think we've had a very insightful first day for me especially. It's not just about understanding the tools where we are right now, but anticipating what's coming towards us in the future. And I'm really excited to be welcoming Zach Seward onto the podcast because he is leading edit AI initiatives at the New York Times. He's currently the editorial director of AI initiatives at the New York Times and he is figuring out and experimenting. His team is experimenting with generative AI. What does this all look like? How is the newsroom, a legacy newsroom like the New York Times, going to be evolving in this transformational time? But apart from before his time at the New York Times, Zach also has a background as a journalist and a media entrepreneur. He's known for co-founding the business newsroom Quartz back in 2012. He's taken on the roles as the chief executive officer, a chief product officer, the editor-in-chief, as well as co-owner of the company. And with all of that experience, building a media brand. During one of those digital pioneer times and now leading AI at the New York Times. I'm very excited to be welcoming you, Zach, and thank you so much for joining me on User and Robots. Thank you so much uh for having me. As we're going ahead, we will be having some time for questions and I'm gonna keep those questions, keep those questions ready because I'm Hopefully with all of the provocations that we've had today, you've had a lot of your minds have been thinking and all the tough questions that Zach's here to help us think through as well. But I want to start And take go back to late 2023, Zach, when you were appointed the editorial director of Zaya Initiatives At the New York Times. That was a time when the news industry was starting to take generative AI seriously. The New York Times bringing you on was one of those big news headlines everyone was talking about. And I want to go behind the scenes of those days because what is it like to start up a team on AI? From scratch, within a newsroom, and especially during a time when the industry was very hesitant about generative AI and what its possibilities could mean for our future. Yeah, I I remember I started the job right before Christmas in twenty twenty three. I I think I just wanted to get on payroll as fast as possible so I could get off uh I'd been I'd been out of work, so get off Cobra. And I also remember that because it was the week between Christmas and New Year's that the Times sued OpenAI and Microsoft. And I learned about that the way everybody else did, which was a push notification on my phone from the Times app. Exciting times starting to roll there. Yes. WAP of news within the first few days, but I should say that that's about as much as I can or would they'll say about the the lawsuit because that as that anecdote suggests, it's totally separate from my team, which is a newsroom. So I think, you know, to to answer your question, once cut through Christmas and the news of the lawsuit and what have you. You know, the the biggest order of oper uh the most important order of operation was thinking about what a team like this should look like. Like what are the skill sets to bring on board? And then of course going and hiring for those. skill sets back. I hardly think enough time has passed to suggest like we've got it perfectly right, but what we decided to do with with our our team was hire two machine learning engineers, a product designer, an editor, and myself, which is like another editor. And You know, we wanted to have that mix of skills. I crucially everyone comes from a journalism background and then sort of brings specific other skill sets to bear enough to allow us to do prototypes. to to actually work with the technology, not just think about them. So anyway, the the first the first few months of the of the job were sort of specing that out and of course trying to go f find people in in an industry that's admittedly pretty s you know still pretty new and small. Yeah. And I'm very curious to know like what were some of the key problems or issues you were thinking of. tackling during those first few days? Because I know a lot of people over here are probably getting, trust upon, this new role of AI and you're moving into a new job. What are those first steps that you need to be thinking about? tackling were those four steps that you took. Yeah, I would say the areas of focus for the team have have from have been clear. from pretty early on and remain consistent. And there are three of them. So first is using AI for research and investigations, those cases where a reporter just has huge data sets, tens of thousands of documents. hundreds of hours of video and AI can be enormously helpful in searching through and making sense of those kinds of data sets. That's the first area. Number two is internal workflows and processes. So helping, you know, those like naughty or just robotic parts of everybody's the job and day to day, you know, looking for those at least around the a newsroom and seeing if if we can help uh alleviate some of those problems. And then the last area focuses reader experiences, so ways in which people might use or consume the times in the future. that makes you know you make use of AI, which is, you know, we do with a lot of other teams, uh, of course. And I think we knew from the outset those were the three areas we wanted to focus on. They are admittedly each enormous areas on their own. So, you know, I feel like we sometimes find uh face a question of where like of course priorization. You always priorization is always a question, but But not just what to do first, but even just to decide like which of those areas is likely to have the greatest impact long term. I I don't know that we've figured that out yet. And I think one of the other big issues is When you're introducing AI into a newsroom and a large newsroom with thousands of journalists like the New York Times, what does that look like in getting them to even Be interested in engaging in those conversations with your team. AI, especially in 2023, the narrative was a lot that it's here to replace our job of journalists. How do you go about dispelling that narrative and getting people on board and buying it getting them getting the buy-in there? I've been surprised how much of the job has turned out to be talking. And I should say now now that we we're a team of five, it's really all of us on the team. And Rabina Fillion is the deputy editor on the team to who leads all of this, which is Just on their what we call our roadshow presentation to all the various desks at the times. You know, I'm still getting used to the scale of the place, so I I'm told there are 40 different desks. And there are two thousand journalists. I think by now we've reached about half of them. I wouldn't say in person, not literally all in person, but with live presentations about about AI. And that's in that's quite intentional. Like I think that talking has been sort of done the most to help people help shape perceptions of Okay, I guess we have you know the benefit of coming and talking about a topic that everybody knows something about and has has has thoughts on is bringing you know baggage to the table. So you there's you know, we get great good attendance at uh, you know, mandatory workshops and great questions, even if they're challenging ones. But the of course people are coming from a whole wide variety of places in terms of the what kind of baggage to bring into the table, what even they think we mean when we say AI. You know, I feel like generative AI as a term has done kind of a disservice to our industry in particular, because it's not that there aren't generative applications of large language models that are interesting for media. There absolutely are some of those, but a lot of the most interesting applications have nothing to do with writing articles or writing out creating pros at all, so much as like, as we say quite a bit in these workshops, you know, creating structure out of unstructured data sets to help unlock stories that are hidden in massive data sets you probably previously couldn't have considered as possible to report on and now is a whole new realm of reporting that that we can conceive of and actually do. And being able to tell those stories, point to actual pieces that have published now, that it you know, make it take advantage of th those methods has gone a long way, I think. You know, obviously the usual show don't tell And and also just being normal human beings, so we could all talk about the very important naughty ethical questions, labor questions, and environmental questions that AI raises. I don't like we don't go around pretending to have great answers to all of all of those we want to engage in those hard questions the way you you would any hard question in a newsroom. And I think the whole conversation around AI, the way you were talking about, you've done a thousand of at least a thousand journalists so far, spoken to them and had these conversations. What does that road show that you're calling it look like and getting people to actually start adopting AI? Has there been an adoption, a significant adoption in AI that you're actually now starting to see as a result of this Yeah, uh you often the by road show is the first introduction, not to AI, because like I said, everyone has played with it at home or has their like prior like sort of personal experience of AI. And a lot, of course, have of course played with it professionally. But for the average employee, it's the first time they're getting introduced to the tools that we make available internally for use at work. And ideas of what they could do with it, stuff that their colleagues have been doing with these tools. So the the workshop looks like a mix of that. It's sort of a practical, here's Here's what exists and if you take this training you'll get access to in 30 minutes. And here's a wide right like a sampling of investigations, workflows, stuff that that other people have been doing to that you might take take inspiration from. And those tend to get Good reviews. I think it the the main vo uh takeaway for a lot of people is it expands their view of what AI is. And I that that seems like a success. I think a lot of us have a narrow come at it from like one particular perspective of well what even we mean hopefully people are leaving these workshops with a a broader perspective. Does that differ from like desk to desk, how do you go about just getting them to start adopting and especially the people who even if you have gotten them to get experience AI Are just not ready for that transformation. And all of the ethical issues that come across that are implicated with this Technology. Yeah, but I it definitely berries desk to desk, though I'm not gonna say which ones uh are which We really try to stay true to the idea that our team is it fundamentally an AI enablement team. Like we're in charge of making sure that our journalists have access to all the right best tools that they might need to do their job. that have to do with AI, just like we try to get them access to all the rest other tools. We want to make sure they have access to training and tutorials. advice from their colleagues on how they're using it, it's inspiration for how it might fit into their day to day and so on and so forth. And then I do really think at the end of the day, with this particular technology, it's not always, but a lot of it is of is about coming up with very personal solutions. And it is on each individual employee to figure out how AI fits into their workflows, their day-to-day. And if it does at all, you know. So do you work with them one-on-one in that? Yeah, well we well one, we take that perspective. Like I'm not an audio producer. I I'm not sure an SEO specialist, I'm not a Metro reporter. You know, those folks are gonna know where the best app or most like promising applications are if we are giving them the rest of those things. the con the tools and the context for thinking about it. And then yes, we work individually with reporters who have ideas. We do workshops like that are more like hands-on with now with with desks that want to work through like specific ideas, you know, ideas that are specific to their desks type workflow. And we offer some tooling to help people experiment on their own. So we're not everything doesn't have to come through us. I want to get into the tooling part that you're talking that journalists have access to. New York Times is suing open AI, so how are you creating And defending your publication now when you are interacting with AI models and getting your journalists to use generative AI, what precautions are you taking and what kind of tools are you building then to help your journalists? Yeah, we have a a variety of those commercial and open source LLMs available internally for our journalists. We've developed a legal and standards training that you have to take before getting access to any of that. But once you do, you can, you know, you have automatic access integrated with, you know, our productivity suite and as well as you know direct access to a few different chatbots or their accompanying APIs. There's a little bit of uh you know, if you build it, they will come that dynamic to that, just like making the tools available. But in other cases it's been necessary to build more specific tools to help folks make the most of what's available to them. So one I think probably the most successful is like technically quite simple, but turned out to be quite profound in like its design. So a tool called Echo we use internally for summarizing or otherwise transforming any piece of content from the Times or or other brands. You know what I mean by it being technically simple is it's just hooked up to you know you could pick one or more or pick one of several LLMs that's just making an API call to. You provide one or more URLs of Times content that we can then go fetch the text and other metadata for. And then you can web playground, you can pick from a few different preset prompts or write your own. And you can use it as an API to do all the same things. And all it's doing really is abstracting away the the part hard parts or the parts that a journalist trying to use AI in their workflow shouldn't have to worry about. Like making an API call or even fetching our own content is harder than it you know should be. And to your point earlier, we we are locked down about what tools are we approve these or content with AI for. So this of course is one of them. And it's been great to see because It turns out I think more than half of the workflow challenges that people face around the newsroom have in some way, shape, or form to do with summarization. Obviously literally writing summaries is a big deal, a big part of what we do, but you expand the definition to include headlines, tags. the homepage summary, the last five minutes of the daily where they're like, here's what else they need to know around the what's going on around the world. those are also summarization challenges. And so our approach was to build echo to help teams sort of figure out for themselves what worked. And And then you know we work with them to do to do that process, but not like have to make a ranking of 30 different projects and go down one by one and sort of beat the be all and end all for AI at the times. That's not doesn't seem like the right approach to this particular technology, which is more like it's in the in the air than it is like something that should really be reserved to a single desk even like ours. So is each new desk basically then getting access to this tool, adapting it for themselves and you're abstracting out that somebody's And why did you even choose this product in the first place? Like how did you even decide that this is where AI was best suited as your first tool? From talking to a lot of people, we one of the first things we did as a team was run a hundred person trial. pilot program in the in the newsroom where people got access to tools early in exchange for feedback. And Among the findings was what I said earlier, like more than half of the workflow type problems people thought AI could be useful for had something to do with summarization. So that was kind of a light bulb moment. And then another is uh Zoe Wynn engineer on our team is sort of foresight to see that like well we we're not We're not gonna solve all these different teams summarization challenges one by one. They're gonna solve it if we you know, can provide the right tools and guidance and standards and so forth, and we can you can be there as a resource. And that's generally been the approach and I think it's worked well in that case. Yeah, and I think you're talking about summarization, which is using generative AI in its writing form to write from using a news article as the input and then creating that summary as an output. That also brings me to a point that was something that was very bold that was said at the Nordic AI Media Summit. I'd spoken about it earlier this morning. I was there at Copenhagen. The Nordics are ahead in, I would say, their adoption of AI, unlike any other region that I have been speaking to. And over there, the editor in chief of the Finnish newspaper of record, I would say, Helsingin Sonomat, she actually said that writing is no longer a core journalistic skill for most journalists. I want to get your response to that. We are currently starting off with summaries. Do you see writing and those evolving features now which you always determined and you saw it would part of the score skills of journalists. Do you see that evolving? How does that evolve? And you already see the industry, the Nordics, and looking at exploring those aspects. Well look, I mean it kind of reminds me of I think I wrote a piece ten years ago or more. The headline was like, the home screen is dead or you know, the homepage has died. It was like it had some truth to it but it wasn't actually true. And and that's how I feel about the the statement about that writing is already less important, doesn't doesn't ring true to me. least in the the US market, but I like where or I see where she's coming from in and could see trends playing out in a similar way. Like the way I think about it is like I I don't you know I'll try to paint some picture of the future because I I hardly think a good sense of that. But if we imagine that Reporting today is some mixture of reporting out facts, the research, and trying like digging up genuinely new information and then there's like synthesizing and writing up of that new information I think it does stand to reason that like pressure AI puts on publishers means that there's more value in the former that in in reporting new facts than in the latter writing them up assuming that, you know, where there are new interfaces that are writing up those facts in different forms or publishers that have less control as you've suggested. uh over their over where or how the facts are presented in the first place. Of course, it's only really valuable if it's like they're genuinely proprietary facts. So like there wasn't you know something you can't get. elsewhere, which is a is another question entirely. But that's kind of how I view the you know, writing is dead provocation. It's hard to imagine that people won't continue to appreciate clarity of writing, well spun narratives and other aspects of writing that have endured for a long time, even as also other aspects of news. Where like it's not about the writing get transformed into a different format. I have room in my heart for both possibilities happening at once. So there may be some possibilities where you see writing being Part of that journalistic storytelling that we get even more value for since it's human-authored in a world where everything is AI, could be AI generated. But I also want to go into the next realm of AI within the news drill. That you said was your priority, which was investigations. And the New York Times was one of the first newsrooms to disclose using AI and won a Pulitzer just last year for the visual investigative reporting. And you've been doing a lot of interesting work regarding using generative AI for that investigation. How are you productizing this entire experience and tools for journalists so that you can do a lot more of this investigative work with AI. Well first of all it came pretty clear early on that the one of the largest, if not the biggest, opportunities for AI in our newsroom is going to be for investigations that this was an opportunity to kind of double down on an existing advantage, the times was likely to have uh leaked documents or other inside inf you know information that we could then benefit from with uh greater analysis. And relative to some other applications, which I don't I don't I think are interesting, just don't seem sort of game changing in the same way that this one does. I obviously may I may prove to be wrong. It's it's early days, but to my mind, you know, we've opened up like an opportunity for new types of reporting you just couldn't even consider doing in the past. The examples we'll talk about are are are really just feel like the very beginning. They're actually more like things we could have done in the past, just now in a new way. But we're opening up opportunities for just data sets that are so huge and are so messy that it could not have considered them as candidates for reporting work, but now we can and that's quite exciting. Can you share an example of just how that's been impacting the work Yeah, and then and I can then actually answer your question about like tooling or making that possible across the newsroom. So a good example of this just because it touches on a number of uses of AI is an investigation. We did of uh a group called the Election Integrity Network, which if you've not heard of it, maybe suffice it to say that they they were not so interested in the integrity of the US election as making sure that it went their way. And Ali Berzon and Nick Carcinity had been covering this group for several years and finally hit the jackpot a source leaked to them. recordings of every z private Zoom meeting that this group had held for the prior three years. And this was like 500 hours of of video. There were not even 500 hours between receiving these videos and election day. So clearly like some assistance would be needed. The first of which is just trend using AI to transcribe the videos. which, you know, still amounts to like five million words of spoken text, so still like an un unfathomably large data set. But we from there used all the background knowledge that Nick and Allie had on this this group, including knowing what to look for in these transcripts, like what topics of discussion might be of interest. It crafted a like a very lengthy detailed prompt for an LLM to go through row by row one to each transcript looking for specific instances of connections to the RNC, funding sources, elections in Ohio, targeting immigrant communities, and so forth, and return back, you know, where it found anything interesting, examples of that. And it was very effective in that particular case. You know, it was using AI instead of like a typical keyword search, you know, is able to get op you know to get over the semantic differences in language where this group isn't so stupid to have been saying, even in their private meetings, you know, we wanted target immigrant communities. But they were discussing topics su such as that and you know using an LLM to examine the transcript turned up those kinds of examples. And that It's basically like in a nutshell is the repeatable pattern we've seen in so many different areas of coverage. So a lot of reporters in Washington who are vetting Trump cabinet nominees. Yeah, as you know, a ton of whom were ripped straight from television news, so there's this voluminous record of things that ye Pete Hegseth has said about his own drinking habits, or Tulsi Gabbard has said about, you know, positive things about American adversaries or or the deep state. So we were not short for raw material to go through. The opposite was the problem. We had too much raw material to go through for each of these Cabinet nominees, RFK Jr. was another one where he and the weird thing was um he didn't have like position papers on his website, he just linked to his Rumble account, um which is like a sort of a right-wing YouTube and Like that served us as statement of policy, so downloaded all the frumble videos and then used AI to help. go through search each of these transcripts in the same way I was describing with the election integrity network case. So all of which might make clear like the kind of tooling then we're building is for situations like that where you're trying to take a huge data set and create some structure out of it and and uh using a spreadsheet as the sort of overriding metaphor that's been quite successful. Like our team's goal is is to they said A is AI enablement. We take on these individual projects because they have the real world details and messiness that you'd want to actually build something useful, but the goal is always to like do it toward building up tooling that hopefully one day everyone in the newsroom can use to do similar kinds of analysis. But how are you as as a five-person team within such a large newsroom able to take on these projects and what kind of tools are you trying to build as a result to help your journalist or investigative journalism? Yeah, you have to like pick our our shots. I should say a ton of the work that I'm describing has been done by uh one person in particular on my team, Dylan Friedman. and he's in Washington and and done a lot of great legwork, just even educating reporters about what's possible. So that you know, I I we find that access to tools is really not the thing that unlocks people like converting to act to being actual users. It's examples that resonate with them. It's you know, either examples that they can see themselves going and doing or just are similar enough that it like makes a connection to I could use AI to do this. And once you get that, like you're thinking the the pile of papers that just fell on your desk are an unstructured data set and not just a messy pile of papers. Then you start calling up Dylan because you've got you know it's starting to click for you and you've got another good idea of what you could do with this new data set that came in. So a good deal of the work is that kind of handhold uh instruction by doing that I think has been pretty effective for us too. I mean it's all quite new methods. And then trying as fast as possible build tools to just even to automate our own work, even within our own team that was necessary and ideally for other people has sort of been the theme this year too. I also want to get into just the work that you're doing at the times is with investigative journalism takes a lot of time, takes a lot of effort. But we are entering a world where that's all fact once the news breaks. All of this becomes facts. Another newsroom can report on it. Another newsroom that has a partnership deal with OpenAI can report on it. And so when you say what's today's news Something that could have broken up, could have been a news that could have that the New York Times broke, could have been published by somebody else. It comes now in your AI agent systems. And what I was talking about just this morning was what do you do when your journalism is seen but your brand is not with any publications and when every single article becomes just atomized too fast. Even when we break news, all of those become facts, opinions, and quotes, and all of those are things that could be extracted away. And we're having AI systems and a future where AI agents are able to just go across thin and personalize the news into whichever format you want. You want a news article, you want a podcast, you want to have a conversation with it. It can do that. What do you do and how do you start protecting your journalism and your audience in this evolving future? Well, obviously one way that the Times has chosen to protect itself in this case is the part that I don't have anything to do with, but by filing that lawsuit against OpenAI. I'm Microsoft and I'm I'm no intellectual property lawyer and the Times Zone IP lawyers probably not want speculate about this either, but you know, it's not entirely the case that facts are facts and can't, you know, can be freely distributed and not can't be copyrighted, or or that all facts are equal, I guess. If you think about Yeah, the Times just won a Pulitzer for breaking news photography, Doug Mills, the White House photographer who captured that bullet shrieking right past Donald Trump's ear. Obviously anyone can God and legally copy that photo, but that that's a piece of documentary evidence that is is exclusive to the to to the times. And I bring up that because I I do think So saying before that those that kind of reporting, we truly can't get anywhere else, is going to matter more and is going to have greater value. in this world you're describing. I I don't think that it's all it all gets mushed together and there's no protecting a viewer of your reporting, at least not writ large. Like maybe maybe breaking news is a you know a category that it's always ever been difficult to maintain and an edge. But you asked a broader question about what happens to the brand. I mean and the shortest answer is I have no idea. The like it's a very good question. I think I think you're right to like provoke on this point of what is it what happens to news consumption if At least definitely an if, but like if people are mostly getting all of their news, entertainment, information and digital consumption through something like a chat bot uh or their own personal assistant, that's a great question. And you know, but my job is to help uh team's job is help the times think through what that could look like even if it never comes to pass or even if as a company they make other strategic decisions. Because it does, you know, there's some s similarities, it feels like, to the platform era of you know the social media platform era that is of like deciding whether to be okay play in other people's platforms and be disintermediated again. On the other hand, there's something sort of fundamentally different about this technology. So I mean I don't know what it ends up looking like. But on the other hand, I d it feels unlikely to me that the end state of people's of this like super intelligent dirvana that you're describing is a chatbot Yeah, yeah. Well I'm not saying a chatbot isn't part of the experience, but yeah, it's something some comprehensive experience of your life that is controlled by you know, Google through a variety of devices are all around you. I you know, you could speculate to the end of time. But I guess I just bring that up because that does the form it's gonna matter quite a bit to your question of well not uh not just b the brand, but the very type of journalism that can be done. I remember you know worrying a lot with the rise of native apps that was you know it's kind of simultaneous with a with a spurt of innovation in data journalism that like was spurred almost entirely for by D3, the JavaScript library for that a lot of like data visualizations are built up with. And like we were all very concerned that like native apps were gonna kill the dataviz because you know there was like just not as much, or I guess it was gonna use flash on the iPhone even before D3. I mean I think those concerns were at once valid, like it did cause some compromises that weren't great at the time and kind of silly in in retrospect. Like we adapted and we made made sure we were writing for the platforms people were getting us on. And so I think it's a truism that if people are gonna be getting us on their Claude chat, then we'll need to be there. And I don't think it's necessarily it doesn't have to look or feel like Like the times, I would assume you'd want it to. So what reader experiences are you then prototyping? Because that's also part of what your team does to embrace generative AI and the way in which tech companies are changing and using generative AI for its benefits to make information more accessible to people there. Yeah, two areas that have been really fun to explore recently are search. So we are like every other news website out there, our search sucks and it's a hard to find article you know exists. And for the same reasons I was describing earlier with regard to investigations, using embedding models as part of our search stack. is showing really strong results in sorts of improving the relevance of the results you get. And again, without generating anything. So another case in which like generative AI is a misnomer. Or you don't you know we get we're getting better search results for readers without having to create anything new and and create the risk that that that that would pose. And then we're looking at other types of search features. Like I just generally think search matters more in this world. Maybe probably uh on in our own owned and operated in environments like our our app, but definitely in a third party ecosystem where people would where other agents might be interacting with the times and need to be able to get what they're looking for without knowing how to ask exactly for it. Um and we need to understand that. So that that's it seems like a crucial piece of technology. So We're focused on it. And uh voice interaction is really interesting to us. Uh I think it does there've been a number of cool advances in that. space lately, so just playing with that those new APIs is interesting. And it's seems like a fair bet that some aspect of what AI will do to media is another go-round in the like voice interface. Parade. Well, it doesn't sound like that fun of parade, but where, you know, I think for those of us who've been doing this for a while, like you know, Alexa had its moment five or so years ago. voice interfaces have have sort of come and uh come and gone in popularity, but I think there's a decent bet that this is this is this is the real one and or at least enough reason to think that we should we should be prototype A. what talking to the Times would be like. And I just want you to get a bit more understanding because the editorial team is just five people in the New York Times, but you have a huge tech team, a data science team Where does that fit in? Because this is on the editorial side. And how do you talk to and connect with the product and tech that actually takes these prototypes and goes into deploy them? Have there been projects that have just not been able to scale as a result sometimes? Yeah, for sure. I mean, you know, first of all, yes, there are lots of teams that do AI at the times and have been doing some have been doing it for quite some time. So the data science team at the times does by far the most sophisticated use of machine learning. Which is powering, among other things, the logic of our paywall, registration wall, and other other business logic that's quite sophisticated and was a big investment by the times. you know, well before generative AI was uh focus. So we we learned from them quite quite a lot. And then yeah, with the it's that reader facing experiences stuff. We went in the first two categories Or at least the first category of uh research and investigations, we can, you know, move pretty quickly on like the rest of the newsroom on uh if a story needs to be told or get even on some of the newsroom tooling stuff I was describing. Obviously the rest of the work involves a lot of different partnerships, workflow and processes is you know, there's a whole team that handles the CMS at times and is in the process of rethinking that that platform. And so it's a good opportunity for us to be thinking about it with them, but it's a inculking behemoth of a of a project. And I think as a result, we're not nearly as aggressive as some other news outlets, for instance, in integrating AI into our CMS. you know, I I definitely not as far along as the Nordic publications, but but even, you know, but I can tell from similarly sized organizations in the US. Like there's more AI in their CMSs than ours, which is at the moment no AI. Why is that? Oh well, we're moving slowly or more slowly than others. with a mix of intention and by design. Meaning I feel like we're not missing the boat there that we can quickly catch up if there are specific you know, CMS tools and and we're to be clear we are working on on certain AI integrations, but they don't feel like the type or like it matters if it launches to next week or 12 weeks. I don't lose sleep over not being able to suggest SEO headlines with with AI and our CMS. I think wanna do that, but the key team members who will do that all the time, which is like use AI to help brainstorm SEO headlines have the tools outside of the CMS that they need to do that and we help them do that in more than sufficient. I'd rather like think about a long-term plan that is maybe much more ambitious than any ideas we've had already. and invest there. It seems more likely to matter in the long run than the short-term integrations, but we could be totally wrong. But that's kind of that's kind of the bet. And before we open up for audience questions, I want to ask you and just zoom out for a moment to also another your past with quartz. Because you recently wrote a blog post with the how courts ended up moving on and you wrote about trying to build something that could last a hundred years and AI currently seems to be one of those threats for a lot of news organizations that can be disrupting the path for sustainability for a lot of newsrooms and you run up against the business model realities of at courts the platform shifts, what happens when just ownership is like maybe no longer sharing that original vision that you had? And I think with the way in which AI is reshaping this landscape, even if you're not taking going steam ahead, full steam ahead with AI or just prototyping video experiences. and seeing what that future could look like, where is that durability and sustainability for a brand? If someone's even just creating a media brand today from scratch, What makes it sustainable? Is sustainability even a goal that we can be able to work towards in this landscape? I mean yes, I think it has to be. There's no survival without Sustainability. On one hand, I'm like extremely excited to see the crop AI related news startups that come out of this era. I don't know whether I mean they already you know, last few years or and they already exist and are just not on my radar quite yet, or you know, it's gonna be the next few years after this. Well obviously Time will tell. But I think it's very clear each time there's a big platform shift in media that creates opportunities for new startups to emerge and basically take advantage of that shift by not having to worry about the legacy brands. So that certainly describes what Quartz was doing in 2012 when Believe it or not, like print was still the a legacy, you know, that hindered certain other news organizations. And I guess also desktop web. as compared to a focus on mobile, which we were able to to take as we had no desktop traffic to worry about, cannibalizing. So the same thing's gonna happen with AI related news startups, but I think you're right to to suggest like that doesn't change anything about the fundem underlying business models of the industry being any in any better shape than they have been. I would think that if the world you're describing comes to pass and you have people primarily getting their news through like intermediary agent than news organizations where the business model, I put that in quotes just because it could be nonprofit included here, where the where the business model is not dependent on you coming to the website are gonna, you know, clearly they would be preferable. And that you know, so if you're a nonprofit where your goal is simply to reach as many people as possible with your journalism It may not be an issue at all that you're getting disintermediated. I mean, maybe as long as you can track that impact, yeah. You can genuinely embrace the like meet our readers where they are ethos. But whether you can include a link to your uh get a donation on ChatGPT obviously remains to be seen and is largely in the hands of a few big commercial players as it as it always is. Yeah. I think all the conversations we've just had before this recording with exploring all of the future scenarios has got me thinking a lot about how things could go wrong if they do and the impact to our business model and what that could look like. So different futures that we need to be preparing for and painting for. I know we have this room packed with lots of interesting ideas and questions that people have. So I want to give a lot of time for Anyone who has any question for Zach here. Yeah, joy, do you want it? Thank you so much. It's a question for both of you actually, if that's okay. So you began by beginning with a really vivid Description of a particular time academic December 2023 when AI and editorial initiatives were really starting to scale. And so I just wanted to ask both of you what's one thing that you both know now that you wish you'd know eighteen months ago in relation to this journey. I shouldn't thank you, John. And One thing that you know now that you wished you had known eighteen months ago. I don't think we fully appreciated the importance of agency in designing editorial tools with with AI, which I think is Almost always meant making the prompt that's being used transparent and editable by the journalist who's using it. Like nothing fancier than that. So I'm just giving it a fancy name, agency, to mean that Our the work we've done that's been most successful has had that like design principle at its at its core. Like me I as the journalist in charge have full visibility into what's going on here. and can change it at any time. And not even because like we necessarily are changing it, to be clear. Like so that's why it was a bit of a surprise. Like this should be an obvious lesson in one sense, but But the ability to exchange it alone has been powerful and I think really important small design aspect of like building for building AI initials. The one thing back in 2023 is she's not using AI for editorial and newsrooms. When you're training a newsroom, it's not just about Here's what AI is, here's how you can use it, but actually bringing in product thinking into the way in which I would be talking and doing my workshops on AI. It has evolved significantly since I first did my first workshop in May 2023. The way I even introduced the concept of AI, because something that's missing in our conversations is not even AI, it's product thinking We are building news as a product. What does that mean for us? What and AI comes secondary to it. So that's something that removed the conversation from just AI. to even broader what do we do and embed that first phase of those thinking. Why would I ask Zeke um about AI as an equalizer in a way that AI now enables much smaller newsrooms to do things that a few years ago only the New York Times could do. Aaron Pillowfer from the AI lab at Linpar Binnasota Stark Tribune said that they basically replicated on a weekend. what took New York Times cooking um several figuresome and maybe one or two years. So do you sometimes think about if small newsrooms can do what was cutting edge for us Years ago, how do we stay cunting edge? How can we stay ahead of the curve? Well, first of all, I think it's awesome. that what's possible now and mostly by the idea that AI is an equalizing technology And definitely, you know, it affects si organization size is affecting all sorts of things, including like eagerness to adopt. to feel it, you know, feeling pressure of resources that is more than anything like maybe it would be like the thing that tips you over to thinking about adopting AI for this or that. task. I wouldn't say that do we worry too much about about this. I I don't I don't really at the end of the day think That AI is going to be what differentiates any news organization from another news organization when it comes to the investigative work that I was talking about. I fully expect that the like tooling we've built could be replicated by others. We hope to source it ourselves. And let as many people use it as possible. But to the extent we have an advantage there, it's gonna be again like the fact that we have the documents to analyze in the first place, sort of more traditional. advantages. I think it's does not seem to me likely that these organizations will will compete on the cutting edge of this tech. as like a differentiator for like winning readers as compared to the normal differentiators of just really good journalism winning readers. Like yes. Hi, I'm Megan Goth. I'm the editor of local news startup in Covington Public and KYX. And so you were talking earlier and you said something to the effect of it would be preferable not to rely on AVs for your business model. And I feel like I've said this Anyway, I can think I've just said it to people above me. There's very many we're small. But and I almost texted her and then in my head I thought, well she's gonna ask me, well then what should they be? What should our business model be? And so I'm guessing if you had the answer to that question, probably would be somewhat more important than here with us. But how do we start figuring out what that answer is Well yeah, I don't don't have the answer for sure, but I I like to start by and you had something like this in your presentation, that like think you know forcing yours yourself to think about what you would do if you didn't have to worry about the business model. Because the answer is usually different from whatever existing operations you have. You know, it seems kind of obvious in in the world of personal agents that the thing you wanna do I and I I tell this kind of obvious, but even as I say it I'm questioning it, so I don't know how obvious it is. But the predominant uh conventional wisdom that that could exist for this kind of thing is that you'd you know you'd want to plug into as many users yeah, agents as possible to get them to in enrich their experience on the internet by dint of having a connection to your news outlet or information provider. And I like that like as an idea, like that that seems It kind of makes intellectual sense to me that, you know, all right, like I can get the normal version of ChatGPT or Gemini for for this price, but if I wanna get my like MBA or MLB actual highlight clips in it, I gotta as always pay more because the leagues are charging. That's the like less fun example of it. But the more fun for us would be, you know, and I want to include my local news source because they're the ones who have the you know, new information that I that's most important to me and when I ask for a news summary or other information, I want it to be included. I don't know, I mean I I don't know how far from like it feels a little like polyannish, right? And it's obviously not a new new uh business model that would work today. And so I feel like for new any news outlet that has the luck or ability to not have to defend a certain legacy. It'd be crazy not to embrace that trend if that's how things go. But it definitely feels like, you know, uh going down a large I don't know, jumping off a cliff, I suppose. And not knowing what's on the other side. I think we have time for one more question. We have. You know with the Chicago Sun Times and WBTC. You talked about how you're helping reporters with AI very like find information in very large data sets, but I'm wondering. Like at what point, how much information does the reporter need to dig into for the raw for the raw data in order to even help? like the language learning model know what to help identify for them because I just think a lot about how the pre-work and what you don't see on the page was really useful in helping to actually craft the story and understand what the focus should be. And like how you get a language learning model to actually do that kind of human work. Yeah, it it really obviously depends on the on the circumstance. The killer combination and What found is like AI plus reporters expertise goes a long way. And so like in that example of the election integrity network investigation I do think the reporter's background information on the organization being part of the prompt mattered quite a bit to the quality of the results that we were able to get. So there's like a lot of upfront work I mean just a report on the organization itself and that was then you know we might as well have the large language model. aware as well. Whereas in other cases like looking through the Pete Heggseth transcripts for instances of of him talking about Drinking, it was not necessary to have like a voluminous set of examples. Like the model itself is well aware of all the various euphemisms people use were for drinking alcohol and was a and that was why using AI for that task was useful, like 'cause he's talking about getting blitzed and having a rager and things that like Obviously any keyword search was not gonna pick up, but AI was able to with minimal of prompting, but nothing. And then you know some in some cases it's it might be a classification task like Tulsi Gabbard was the problem is with well the challenge with the data set of her appearances is she's usually a guest on other people's shows. So we needed to distinguish when the people were referring to Tulsi Gabbard and when she was actually the one on screen, which is a little bit of computer vision. So which is just to say the like how much background work is going into these per story depends on quite a lot and but there's always like a point at which like the AI steps away and then reporting becomes Once again, pretty old-fashioned in terms of like the process of fact-checking from the air, which is going back to the original material and looking at it to make sure the quote is accurate and everything is as we say it is. I think my type of ways from just the way you are approaching AI at the times has been slow. You are careful and intentional the way you said by design. But also those three priorities that you have laid forth in a five-person team can make a huge impact in this 2000-person newsroom with having these conversations, which is so crucial to just understand where we need to be integrating AI, how you need to be integrating AI, and that's how we've been building your tools and empowering your journalists with the investigative journalism, which I'm excited to see more from the Times. So thank you so much, Zach, and thank you everyone for joining us for Our podcast recording. That was Zack Seward, the editorial director of AI Initiatives at the New York Times, recorded at the New Newsroom Robots AI Leadership Summit held in partnership with the Online News Association in Detroit. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots Podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible. Thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is News from Robots.