This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today is Ole Zakarison, the head of News AI at BBC News and the former head of AI at Swedish Radio. Ole talks about how the BBC is approaching AI across its newsroom, from speeding up workflows and repackaging stories, to experimenting with new formats. He also shares how his team is building a fine-tuned language model to reflect the BBC's editorial style and how they are driving innovation while keeping trust and public service. at the heart of their work. Hi Ole, welcome to Newsroom Robots. It's so great to have you on the show today. Hi, thank you for inviting me. Oh, I've been very interested in your journey leading AI. You started it off at the Swedish Radio as the head of AI over there, and you recently joined a few months back. the AI news team and you're leading the news AI team at BBC News now. And so I'm very excited and interested to hear about what the BBC's approach now has been like. and your role working with public broadcasters and reimagining what does it mean to be a public broadcaster in the age of AI, what the responsibilities look like. So I'm very excited to get into all of this in our conversation today. But I wanna just start straight up right now with just a high level picture and understanding in this moment of generative AI that we are right now in. How important and what's the approach for the BBC when you're thinking about generative AI? But I mean I often say that I don't work with AI. I work with news journalism and public service journalism Journalism in particular, and now of course we navigate in an emerging AI ecosystem. Of course, that's changing a lot of stuff for us Because what do we do? Think about it, like what do we do in a media company? We produce language basically and now these incredibly powerful models are penetrating like every corner of the media landscape. So of course it's a big deal for us. So we at the BBC we try to see it uh broadly and strategically, like what's in it for us and what's what aspects are most important for us to focus on, of course. So both when it comes to what's happening out there in society and in the media media system, like all the these things about like discovery of news and how do people consume news and How can I our content also be distorted in this landscape? But then of course also internally, like how do we accelerate the use of AI to fit our purposes and to meet our values and actually help us produce stuff better. So my team, my news AI team in BBC News is focusing on the latter. So we're an acceleration team for a responsible use of AI. And so let's zoom out a bit. How would you describe the BBC's overall like strategy towards AI right now? In BBC News, because I work with news specifically, we try to organize our work around four strategic themes. So instead of just saying like, hey, we use AI, we try to do it in a more uh structured sense. And that's been really good because then we can connect the dots better between different Projects that we have going on. So those themes are basically we use and accelerate the use of AI to boost productivity, to reformat news content. To augment our journalism and to innovate user experiences. And this has been good because also then it makes it more clear to our colleagues and to ourselves like what we focus on. And also then, as I said, we have been doing quite a lot of different standalone projects, and some of them are brilliant, but we haven't really kind of linked them up in these more strategic themes. So that is also very important for us to do when we have a dialogue with our product department or our RD department or our technology department. because then we can more work more thematically together and form a more long-term internal partnership than just doing one-offs So you spoke about this organizing your work into four broad themes, right? Productivity, reformatting, augmenting journalism, and then innovating user experiences. I want to walk through each of those buckets right now and understand a bit more on what the projects are looking like and how that adoption is. Sure. So under these four pillars then or strategic themes, we have then what I call our project portfolio basically. And that will be individual projects that are In very different stages. Some are more advanced and some are basically just on their outset. So boost productivity. That can be, for example, using much more transcription at scale to kind of let our journalists find stuff easier. Maybe also we can of course use it for tagging. We could use that also in the next uh instance to kind of reformat content. Let's say we want to do something go from a live audio format and make that into a text-based live page. That's something that we're working on, so it could be that kind of stuff. It could also be, of course, producing alt text, like text descriptions for images that we know are very important for accessibility for people using screen readers. And of course now we produce them all together manually and that's a project that we we have also using AI then to describe these images better. We produce 10 newsletters, and there are a lot of kind of pretty tedious and time-consuming tasks when we produce these newsletters. That's also an AI use case And of course, translation. The BBC, we have 42 languages in the world service. So of course AI linked to translation for boosting productivity but also reformatting between Different languages, of course, that's a very important thing too. Yeah, so I'm understanding a bit more about like the transcription and the newsletters that you're talking about. Is that AI is now assisting completely embedded within journalist workflows? What's been the adoption like? Translation is maybe our most uh kind of mature project in the sense that we've been working on on AI translation for two three years. So there you have an actual interface like a tool where you have kind of side by side Translation from the original, then the AI assisted version, and then of course you have to sub-edit and correct it before. Publishing. I mean human oversight with everything like that is of course key for us. You know, we can never surrender our editorial responsibility. So that's one thing. Whereas the newsletters is more not building a tool, but maybe then using more of a customized GPT to actually help us fill out fields that we need to do for newsletters. Let's say we have a headline, but we also need a subject line for the email itself. And how can we use AI then to kind of suggest varieties of of those little text fields that we have to fill in. With newsletters, it's not the kind of stuff where we want to replace the creative writing. We always have a kind of a lead paragraph or an intro from one of our journalists. And of course we want to keep that. in their tonality and with their sharp analysis. But there's a lot of kind of little instrumental things you have to do before publishing a newsletter. So let's move on to the next bucket, which is all about reformatting. What does that look like? So the BBC produces massive amounts of content, yeah, for all the different platforms that we have. And uh this can be a challenge because it's very hard sometimes to get an overview. That's why it's For example, good to transcribe as much as possible and to make it searchable. But let's say take the video as an example. We can sometimes produce news video on exactly the same topic. in five different places of BC News, you know, without really kind of synchronizing so well because it's also hard. We use different kind of formats. We can produce news video in like 69, another vertical format we need for social media, for example. So this is also a very interesting use case for us to look at. How can we use AI-powered tools to kind of Reformat news content like resize it or propose our design templates or subtitles and those kind of use cases. So that's a concrete example. Another one is I love this project. It's not news, but it's news related. So it's a new podcast that we recently launched in Sports. which is called My Club Daily. So for a lot of the football clubs here we produce maybe five, six, ten articles a day on the website. But then we're using that now AI to convert that into a podcast format. So every day you get actually now it's kind of on five of the Premier League clubs or five clubs daily. So you get a little two-minute podcast based on the text-based articles and then we convert that into a script that we check and then it's presented by a synthetic voice. So in reformat news content, it could be that kind of thing where we can actually both increase our output, but also of course chase internal efficiencies by kind of synchronizing our production in a better way and then using AI as a as kind of vehicle for that And so like you start off with the article, which is the raw material, goes into your social media videos, goes into a synthetic podcast that can be created. I'm wondering the BBC, as you said, operates in 42 different languages. Is this happening across all of the languages? What are the different challenges? Because I know AI doesn't work the best with all the languages that are out there. Yeah, it's a good point. And of of course these kind of use cases that are talked about now, we are piloting them. Some of these pilots are more advanced, so they're also in what we call like live piloting, like to the audience. But of course, this aspect that you're highlighting there that the quality can be so different like one language to another, that's Certainly, something that we take into account, and we do a lot of kind of benchmarking between different models and also languages. The common denominator is often that all languages work better with AI if. English is involved as one of the languages, but going from two smaller languages can be much more challenging. I I know that uh coming from Sweden myself So don't interpret this as all of these use cases that I'm talking about that they have been kind of rolled out through the whole organizations because they haven't. Yeah, and so mainly with English right now. Okay, so just moving into like the third bucket that you're saying, we've the productivity reformatting are I think at this stage something that a lot of newsrooms have been experimenting with. What are you thinking about augmenting journalism? What we mean by this, augment our journalism is basically to kind of give our reporters tools to produce bätter original journalism. That can be, for example, high qualitativ investigations into topics. And I think this type of journalism is even more important for us in an AI ecosystem because a lot of the the kind of more reactive news reporting, like of everyday events, like Trump said something in a press conference. That's never gonna be unique to the BBC even if a lot of people consume that kind of news and they come to us also for analysis. But the more kind of really unique original journalism like highly crafted investigations or really kind of well edited podcasts. It's Something that really can make it stand out. So this is basically to give journalists better tools for sifting through vast amounts of data, for example, and kind of structuring it. And here we can both build our own kind of systems or tools, but also use, of course, third-party tools like Notebook LM or something like that to also kind of. chat to the spreadsheet or or find that uh kind of little story angle in a big uh dataset. So that's what we mean in this bucket. And I think this bucket also contains all the AI literacy working with the different tools that you have access to at the BBC so that they can individually use. it to supplement their work. And so I'm wondering, what are those tools looking like right now in terms of how people are adopting it and how you are being able to get people upskilled on AI? It's a very good question because I've been thinking about that myself a lot uh lately. It's like where do we create the most value with AI? Is it through kind of centralized initiatives and pilots that my team is leading Or is it kind of let's go for full-on kind of personal adoption of AI skills in the newsroom I suppose it has to be a balance, right? You have to work on both. But I think that we've been better in the media industry and in the last two years to actually focus on those centralized initiatives like And that's because it's easier to track, it's easier also to say that we're doing something, we might be chasing also the the shiny new thing, if you see what I mean. But this more kind of invisible usage of AI, for example, in the hands of a really skilled journalist, it's perhaps even more important that they kind of really can improve how they work and and find those news stories. So it's a kind of a balance that we work on several different fronts. Of course, one important thing is to put the actual tools in the hands of the journalists and have training courses and so on. So Copilot is now used across the BBC. We can see that the use of it is increasing month by month and that users are making more queries and also that they testify in in learning lunches that we have, for example, that they they have really used it to improve their journalism. We have hundreds of tests licenses still with chat GPT. We also have more kind of bespoke models that are customized GPTs to to help our journalists do these kind of tasks We also have interesting discussions and also test licenses with some external tools like from the other external tools like from other tech companies So it's a wide range of things, but it's really about kind of inspiring people to use it more and there I think it's Training courses are one thing, but it's the kind of peer-to-peer learning between journalists that can really accelerate the use. Because it's not enough if a person like me shows up on the screen and says this can be terrific You have to hear it from a colleague that could also be more hands-on and who doesn't come across as an AI evangelist. because that's how some people see a person like me, of course, in in the newsroom. You know, that now he's gonna try to persuade me to use something but doesn't say something to me in my my everyday work. Exactly. And I think what you're highlighting is just like adoption is not just coming from Top-down in a way. It also has to be a lot of like a bottom-up approach, other people also learning from each other and being able to supplement that ideas and bring that about. And that's where true AI innovation happens. And I'm thinking when we're talking about AI literacy and adoption in the newsroom, that also brings me to a point where the newsroom can sometimes tend to be pretty skeptical of AI tools. And I mean the industry started off right at the beginning saying We're never gonna use AI and all of the hallucination risks that happened with AI about two and a half years ago. So what's been the reaction at the DVC in terms of just adopting newsrooms? How are you dealing with the skepticism regarding AI and what that means? It varies, and that's the short answer from person to person and and team to team. I mean BBC News is five thousand five hundred people across the world. So I actually think and I want want to challenge this view a little bit. because in my weekly work I don't meet so much scepticism and perhaps people don't uh dare to say to my face No, but it's rather that people are in almost hundred percent production. People sit in production and produce what they're supposed to do at work. And people are very devoted to kind of Producing the radio story or their articles or being preparing a package for TV or or whatever. So people don't have that much time to actually work around innovation and exploring AI and if you don't have that Knowledge of what these models can do, then you don't feel safe with them, and then you don't use it. So it's more maybe also that people are very kind of stressed to even engage with it. And for BBC journalists they always have the credibility and the the trustworthiness of our content at heart. So i i I think it's more than that actually, that people haven't been able to devote so much time to it. then actually that they are really skeptika av how it can be employed in i journalism Of course, at the same time, we've put out like a big piece of research showing very clearly how AI assistance are like every day distorting our content and kind of hallucinating and doing false attributions to to our brands. So that is of course a skepticism that we all have, like what's happening with credible DVC journalism in this landscape. So that's one thing. But then also to be self-critical for us kind of more managing these uh AI progressions or in implementations. I think we've been too poor at really kind of mapping out the needs of individual people and individual teams. A good one of my biggest kind of aha moments in AI journalism was actually back at Swedish Radio a year ago when we had just done a kind of a basic training course for all staff. And fourteen hundred people had done this. And at the end of the course there was this kind of free text field. Basically, like if you had an AI assistant, what would you use it for in your daily work at Swedish Radio? And it was almost like a courtesy that we put it it in there at the back, you know, yeah, let's give people a chance to to have their say kind of thing. But 1224 ideas came in through that free text field, and some of those ideas were so brilliant. They were so brilliant that we could never think them up in a kind of strategy team because people know their workflows, right? They know the pain points of their everyday work For example, for productivity aspects, but also augmenting journalism like how can you use AI to produce better stories? I think the a lot of ideas are in the heads of our colleagues, but we haven't really found the formats to get those ideas out. there and to structure them in a better way. We have just been saying I'm exaggerating a bit, like, yeah, good idea. Use Copilot and and try to do it, you know? But remember the guidelines. So I think that going from these ideas that we can aggregate or that we can accumulate from the bottom up, that's also a very, very important aspect. in parallel to the more kind of strategic uh from the top-down initiatives. Yeah, I'm a huge fan of starting with the problem and not the technology. And that's where the magic happens. I agree with you. A lot of times when you drill down to why people are skeptical about AI, it stems from a fear around using the fear about accidentally using it incorrectly. And also not having the space to explore it, as you were saying. So I think those are all the key things that you've been focusing on and making sure the teams across have that access. And I want to get into the file bucket, which I'm very excited about, but you're talking about innovating user experience. So how are you reimagining what the BBC news experience would look like. Yeah, it's a big uh question and it's about kind of finding the right starting points, I guess. And innovating user experiences can sound very grand, of course, and eventually we're gonna end up with Much more that kind of stuff, you know. But there's a lot of these kind of different terms being thrown around like liquid content, everything is gonna be kind of you can consume it in in any shape or form and just kind of combine it People are talking about agentic AI or or whatever. I think we're a bit far away from that still in the industry in general and certainly also in BBC News. But hey, a starting point for us can be using a synthetic voice to read up articles, for example. Even if this is kind of not a unique use case or people could argue it's not that innovative but it's uh it's that kind of stuff that to give people better ways of consuming our content and using AI as an enabling power to do that. I think it can be that kind of thing. I worked at the Swedish radio, one of my last big projects was being involved in uh conversational news service so basically a kind of a chat like news interface in the in the Swedish radio app that has now been out as a beta test since uh March. So of course it could be that kind of stuff that could give people a hyper-personalized news experience, you can say. You put in your question or you press the pre-suggested prompt And you get that update or you can find the news topic and get a summary of it in in an easier way. And I think from companies that produce so much content on so many platforms that could really be an accessibility uh support. And let's say also for audiences that don't feel so comfortable or they don't like simply maybe the traditional news formats like the traditional article. Maybe we can give them then new ways into the actual news story. I mean you've been involved in that too, Nikita. No? I think It's already happening if you actually look at it. A lot of my conversation about the imminent depth of the article is talking about the fact that AI aggregators are are already remixing our content and presenting it to them in their voice. So the voice that you have, the editorial voice that you have in your article, that disappears. You become part of this machine and the trust and interface The interface then becomes the AI. So I think that's where we're headed. But I agree with you. A lot of the concepts about liquid content, they are thinking a lot more about the future. But what we are building right now is the building blocks of what could possibly uh lead to those agentic systems, right? But I think those are point to one of the big challenges and maybe sometimes fun part about the exciting part that we are in right now where we are actually figuring out things while we are running the business. You have to keep things going, but you also have to think about where things might be headed. And I think that's where a lot of the points comes up about AI projects sometimes fail. And when you're bringing things out and you're pushing things out, it doesn't always have to go the way you hoped it would. And so I think that's one thing I wanted to tap into a bit more because a lot of your work is focused on building AI products. So Where has it been? Has there been a place where things looked great on paper, but it all failed in practice? Yeah, that's the story not about uh just about AI projects. It it's about the kind of digital transformation. I've been involved in so many projects over the year in my like back in the day in Chibstedt or at Swedish Radio, like we have launched something or worked on something that we think sounded terrific. Because either it came from the gut from us as journalists or editors, and thought this is a terrific idea. Or we have kind of maybe misunderstood the user needs Or most prominently maybe that we haven't followed the product through. We have launched a kind of a an MVP uh version of something, and then we have jumped on to the next. thing. So I think it's this kind of iterative execution of products which is actually maybe the biggest problem there. Some ideas should never have been realized of course and should never have been kind of implemented. And I have this old saying that I sometimes use in the newsrooms like Just because it's an idea doesn't mean it's a good idea. You know, it's like kill this idea in its sleep, basically. But then I think it's often that that we have launched something, we test it out Sometimes it doesn't fly and then we say, okay, it wasn't uh worth the effort or let's not put m more money or energy into this. But Sometimes it's actually that we haven't sorted out the user journey in a good way, for example. So I think we're gonna see that with actually a lot of these conversational chat services that people have shucked up like a chat window on the website and it's like, hmm, people are not using it. I wonder why. Maybe let's bandar this thing and jump to the to the next thing. But then that might not be the user behaviour. I've heard now from early insights coming out from Aftonbladet in Sweden that also launched a conversation on U service and also Swedish radio. 80% just press the pre-suggested questions instead of typing in their own news query. So I think when we launch these kind of projects when things evolve, we can see the user behavior, then we have to keep on kind of iterating and adapting them. Then down the line, I mean, maybe it's not worth continuing, but I I think we have to have that approach that we're not kind of launching a ready-made product that k we can stick with for for a year or two. And I think also what you're highlighting too, it's AI projects are not like other IT projects where you have a vision, you get it, it's like your CMS, it's one and done and it's keeping on running. It's something that needs continuous development, needs to You have to continuously iterate on that. But then it also highlights too, just talking about the conversational chatbots, a different experience that people are now getting used to they're very used to chat GPT. The question becomes, why should they come to your chat bot versus go to perplexity or versus go to chat GPT, which then tends to give you much broader sources and maybe is able to answer your questions. It's slightly different I know in the Nordics because there's much more restrictive, especially Chad GPT in Denmark, UCAN Access news sources. But I think especially here in the West, that's one of the biggest challenges. So how do you decide what should you work on right now? How do you decide which ideas are worth pursuing or which are worth maybe dropping in the short term. I think your question there, I mean, we're in the midst of this now and there's so many different dimensions. So one is of course like How should we be present on external platforms and give tech companies access to our content and all those kind of aspects, right? And the other one is of course like what should we then do on our own platforms and with AI ourselves, you know, broadly speaking, those kind of uh different dimensions. I think nobody comes to the BBC News app or the website to get AI, right? You go there to get credible news like w what's happening or what's happening around this story. For us it's It's not about kind of trying to emulate what the AI assistants are doing. We can be inspired by that. I mean the interfaces or the design or the underlying models or whatever. But for us it's about kind of how can we give people a better news experience, not an AI experience in a way. So that also changes a little bit kind of how we see it because of course in an AI assistant uh the the main thing is that they want to please you no they want to serve you with any kind of answer or question And in a way, that's not what w we want to do. We don't want to be general purpose uh assistants that can get can give you advice on anything. We want to help you to understand the news better and to give you information that you can rely on. Basically that's true information. And I then think that when we look at these kind of projects, we look at our values and we look at our unique selling points. which is starting with the news, starting with the news experience, starting with the real user needs, then as you said looking at the technology. So it's another kind of perspective on it and actually it's it's good to think about it like that because then then we keep focused better in all this stress like oh what's gonna happen with news consumption in the future. I think it's going back to the fact that people expect Credible news from our brand. They don't expect very elaborate or sophisticated chatbots in that sense. So that's one way of looking at it. But then I've of course I mean I made a couple of queries the other day in in Google's AI mode. And Of course, what you get there in front of your eyes is a hyper-personalized news website, isn't it? With kind of sources and links and summaries and tables with different aspects. So of course, that's a very interesting evolution that can be also be very disruptive and and we see that already. even if the news consumption is still low in the AI assistance. It it's not the primary use case, but you know We're of course observing this very, very closely. And I think I want to get into a bit more details in terms of how you pick apart projects, how you are tracking all of the different projects that are going across in the organization. What criteria do you use to basically prioritize which projects that are and ideas that are coming about that you need to focus and invest on? Yeah, you could do hundreds of thousands of different projects, right? Uh-huh. Then it's about going back to your strategies and have that as a kind of uh Decisive factor. Let's say now we focus a lot on growing our platforms, for example. Or we really focus on making real efficiency gains like boosting our productivity so we can devote that time into making more. qualitative uh journalism. So then for the different ideas that we have, we try to set up this is very hard. We try to set up very clear metrics and objectives for each project. and then we try to find the easiest way we can pilot something. And that's the amazing thing with Gen AI, right? We've been in fifteen twenty years of digital transformation, we've been obsessed with building things. So we have to build a tool for this, you know, and we've started to do that. And that has been then delayed. So We built an internal tool for summarising or for cropping pictures or publishing content or video editing. Which is often very kind of complicated and also expensive. Whereas now some of the stuff that we can do with Gen AI is like basically you can go in and in three hours customize the GPT that can perform a task that you had to build a tool for for and using in six months. So I think it's it's about assessing the potential value of a project, setting up those metrics as clear as we can. That can be how many minutes can we save with using Gen AI for summarizing this content or or helping us with this newsletter and then finding that really quick way of piloting it and then we can scrap it or we can go into the next phase of that project And the BBC is massive. So how do you actually get all of the teams, product, editorial, RD to all come together and work on AI projects? Now I'm gonna go back again to why I talk so much about these strategic themes because we have hundreds of ideas submitted to us and the generative AI program in the BBC, which is an overarching program with the task of accelerating and coordinating better in the in this space. So many ideas are are flowing in. But a lot of those ideas are very kind of similar or adjacent use cases. So from the language teams, for example, in World Service. A lot of the stuff that they're proposing it can be some language specific thing, but it's it's when you zoom out a little bit, it's very, very close to another use case. So if we see and when we can coordinate in a much better way that hey here's a cluster of things, here's a suite of AI support in our production tools, for example, that we can work on and that we can have a more long-term vision together with our product group then that can create much more value and scale than the individual kind of standalone pilots that we've been running for a long time. So that's also one of the things that we're looking at is this kind of a scalable use case. Do we see these needs basically in a lot of different parts of our organization? And we try to map that out. in a better way using these kind of strategic things that I was talking about. And you're talking about a lot of tools that you're building. What's the sort of organizational bridge that you need to be able to move this from a pilot to a fully value generating product when your teams are using it. Ooh, if I had the answer to that, then I'd I'd be happy. That's the challenge, right? In a big organization. And that's a challenge in any media company, I would argue, that there's this kind of Well, I mean they are silos. That's why you have an organizational tree, basically. You know, you know, you have these departments and often it's easy at the top to say, let's work in a cross-organisational sense because you have a management team and they sit together like the mm the director of finance sits together with the with the CEO and the CTO or or whatever and then they tell their managers like underneath, like, okay, we're gonna do this in a cross organizational way. But then you have a pyramid, right? So often like at the bottom of the pyramid, those teams sit very far apart. They maybe don't even speak the same cultural language if you see what I mean. So we're working a lot on trying to have a more kind of common platform from stage one when we want to start working on a strategic theme or a more kind of long-term strategic project. we have to put the right people in the same room basically almost from the first meeting, if you see what I mean. Because what tends to happen in an editorial media company is that the newsroom is running with something or the editorial management is running with something. And then we try to figure out those needs or the use case and often we have a brilliant idea, we think, right? Then we kind of proceed with that and we work all weeks or months with it. You can even kind of work in the newsroom with something and then we come and try to write out a ticket to the product department or the the tech departments like yes we want this we want this green button on the website you know and they are like Hey one we have our roadmap two we don't know if the users want the green button on the website. So Now what we're trying to do is to start the discovery more together in the earliest stages of the ideas because even if we can't kind of implement and build or scale every idea that's that's coming out, then we have a better chance of at least achieving something for real, for example, like AI support in our production tools. Exactly. And I think what you're speaking about right now, I think, will resonate with a lot of the people listening to this. in the divide that happens and AI is also not just challenging our workflows, what it means for our business, but also like organizationally, how do we change to support this innovation and this development and these projects that are there. It's also about personal relations And personal relations might seem like, oh, that's e improper. You know, it's like projects shouldn't build on kind of be built on personal relations. But execution of projects are often built on good Cross-organizational relations, you know. You need to know each other, you need to meet, you know, you don't need to sit in the same room, you need to understand what the other party is talking about. And I think that from the journalistic point of view, we've been so stressed that we often haven't turned up to kind of demos from from the product teams. We don't understand what they're talking about. We're we're not interested in their kind of iterative models and methods. So basically, we're interested in them doing what we tell them to do. And often that turns out to be kind of Maybe the wrong project or it ends up in a in nothing basically. So we won't have to understand the tech product side. Better and I see myself as a little bit of a translator, translator between these different worlds, but also from the tech side. They need to try to understand the editorial side better. Like, hey, have you been to the newsroom? A lot of people when we now onboard a lot of new super clever AI engineers, for example. Some of those people, which is a good thing, they come from a travel company or they They come from a bank or a fintech or or whatever. They have never worked with journalism um before. And journalism can also feel very intimidated, and especially some of us, like the editors, you know. So it's also about like building the bridges from that side. And that approach I think is so important that we can kind of help each other out to understand the the other kind of codes and languages and phrases and terminology. I think actually one of the best things I think that I did at Swedish Radio was when we constructed a new AI plan a year ago. We used the template from the product side to do it. So instead of having our own way of writing up a strategy or a document, a word document and kind of sending it over to to them. We basically did the whole AI plan to together using the kind of template that is normally used in tech and product. Okay, so having already existing ways in which things are being done, getting the new teams to adapt to that in a way, so it beats some sort of familiarity when you are introducing a new type of process and strategy there. Often from the tech side they are much better at processes and also about structuring the work, whereas it's more kind of gut feeling from the editorial side. So I have a question. What would your advice be or your one piece of advice you'd give somebody when they're asking you how do we move from experiments to newsroom-wide AI adoption? I would say to start with this, like form alliances, basically, with these kind of AI pioneers that we have in other parts of the business. So then you get inspired, right? And inspiration is the kind of fuel of progress. So you speak to people, you have these kind of more open-ended discussions than coming to the negotiation table about a certain project or idea. I think that's the thing with Gem AI now, that these kind of approaches change so fast, and to keep across it you have to speak to loads and loads of different people So when I came into the BBC now, I basically had an Excel sheet with all the people that I wanted to speak to and all all the people that I had kind of suggested to me. And I tried to m meetings with them, preferably when I I could meet them physically, then I did that, but that's also very hard in a organization that is so spread out, also have as I said, these more open discussions. It's it's what I call kind of AI creativity. Because often it's more kind of a concept that somebody has heard of and then you can actually go to a pilot or to to using that in a very, very quick quick way, but then you have to keep this kind of constant inflow of that kind of AI creativity. So I think that's my advice is to be genuinely curious in what the other kind of AI spearheads in your company are actually thinking and working on right now. I completely agree with that. I think uh that's such a great advice because those AI champions, those AI pioneers, it's also coming you're able to tap into that bottom up approach of understanding what ideas people are having and being able to actually build from those pain points there. Then of course to be a little bit more formal and strict. If you don't have clear metrics and an idea of what value you want to create, then an idea or a project is dead in its sleep, basically. Because as we have to be very, very careful with our resources and we want to do so much stuff, and I don't just mean AI stuff. We want to do no all the normal digital stuff as well. No. I mean all the media companies have a Massive kind of digital deficit. So AR projects will always be prioritized against other very important projects. So then we have to be very, very clear on the return of investment. And I don't really see any company that has kind of tracked that code. So have you been taking that stab but cracking that code? What metrics are you trying to track and measure for ROI so you can get buy-in? I mean the return on investment is at this stage, it's often a negative return on investment in the sense that it requires more investment than what you get back, right? It's the kind of a wet dream of a manager to say, I invest five million dollars into this and I get kind of 70 million bucks back. But it doesn't work like that in this stage of AI where we are building up our capabilities I think eventually that we're gonna be like saving resources also or and also kind of transforming the the resources from one part of the organization to another And it's some stuff is very hard to measure, like how many man hours is put into a joint project or whatever to kind of to materialize a certain objective. I think we can be better and better at actually measuring how much time savings we're doing rather than the the kind of more direct monetary measurements and I mean we work with also editorial value rather than with money in in that sense of course in a public service context. So for example, when we are now doing alt text like the text description for images, we can manifest exactly down to the second how much time we save with that basically because we benchmark between the manual workflow and the AI powered workflow. We do that for Translation as well. We have done recently a big project about AI translation and boosting output in Mundo, which is the Latin American section of World Service And of course we have those precise metrics also at like exactly how many minutes does it take to do it with AI and without AI, if if you see what I mean. So I think we're getting a glimpse of it, but it's also what you say, this kind of more evolving approach that that is becoming more and more clear as we move along. And we're talking about It being a negative ROI sometimes right now for a lot of projects. I think one of the projects I also wanted to get into was this bespoke LLM that you've been creating at the BBC you had mentioned at the start. Why do a bespoke LLM? What is the role of fine-tuning an LLM for BBC? So the BBC LLM it can also sound uh very grand and it is a unique thing but it's not a foundational large language model in the sense that we've we're kind of on our own started from scratch. It's basically fine-tuning those bigger models that are maybe trained on a third of the internet or whatever. And to train that and fine-tune that on our content to perform Tasks in a better and yeah, basically more high qualitative way that is more aligned with our values but can also ensure accuracy for that specific task. And the first real use case for this now is what we call the style assist. And the style assist basically allows us to take Copies of or articles written by local democracy reporters around the UK because the BBC funds 150 reporters. Who often sit with a commercial private newspaper and they say send in brilliant kind of local stories to the BBC. And they send in 60,000 stories a year. So it's a big kind of inflow of articles. But we only publish maybe twelve 15,000 of them a year because we have to manually kind of sub-edit them and also align them with BBC style and the formats and the tonality that we have on our website. So basically now we're using an AI to help us rewrite or re style in a way those articles. Of course. staying true to the editorial content, but you know to align it more with with the BBC way of publishing an an article. So that's the first use case for the BBC LLM and then the LLM for this bespoke task has been trained on both datasets then the incoming articles that are manually written and then the AI rewritten articles that we have then edited and published. So we have kind of comparable data sets and that's been a very exciting thing because I I think it's just the first use case of uh larger thematic ambition that we have, which is basically introducing more kind of AI coaching in our CMS to to help our editors and journalists as for example with text production in our content management system or the production tool. to for example suggest edits or proofread a copy or make a summary or in this case then kind of align it to our editorial style So I think as the BBC has so much content and we publish like carefully vetted content, if we can use that and kind of fine-tune our own language model basically I think there can be tremendous uh wins for us. power of a fine-tuned large language model that you're talking about where it learns the behavior of what the BBC style, the tone, the voice. I'm wondering, is it able to follow your style guide pretty accurately as well? Or does that How much of edits does it require once you have this version produced? It's interesting, right? Those insights coming out because it's performs really well with aligning with that with that style. But those articles, the rewritten articles of course always need a thorough human supervision and and kind of oversight of course And that's also interesting to see what the more challenging aspects are. So, for example, impartiality is at the core of everything we do. And sometimes political nuances in these articles Let's say there's a big kans infectious local political question that they are arguing about there. Sometimes there's a nuance in like the positions between different parties that can actually sometimes also be a little bit in the undertext of the content. And we have seen some challenges there too, where this kind of human assessment of kind of political arguments and to give all sides a fair representation, that that can be sometimes challenging, which is important. But it just It just proves the point that we are journalists, it's us as human beings that publish the content and we have to always be editorially responsible. And I think what you're highlighting also is just like news in general, but also BBC being a public broadcaster, you have unique responsibilities. So how are you thinking about what the role of the BBC is going to be like in the AI era? I mean I want us to be a beacon of trust, of course, in a news system where we're also gonna see more kind of AI slop and misinformation. I mean we have unique things going for us. We have a growing digital audience. We have massive audiences, millions of millions of people around the world that consume BBC News. We have the most trusted news brand in the whole world. It's impossible for for a competitor to copy or emulate. We have these incredible journalists that with quality and and trust at the forefront of whatever they do, we control like also analog infrastructure of course with all the Will the traditional broadcast that can actually also be an antidote for misinformation? Because it's basically not digital platforms. that can be even a more important asset nowadays. You know, we have public charters from the state to to reach like the whole population with qualitative information and and content. So I think sometimes that we have to boost up our confidence, like self-confidence in this era, because like we have been a bit kind of downbeat, you know, well, maybe these AI assistants are taking over the news consumers and we can't do anything about it because the tech companies are so powerful and mighty. And of course we have to be across that. We have to analyse every trend. It's also like a strategic thing for us to see what's gonna be our rel relationship like with the tech companies. When do we partner up with them and when do we restrict them from accessing our content, of course. But we have to s look at these kind of unique things that we have going for us. A lot of direct traffic to the BBC News website and the news app. that uh other media companies would be very envious of. So I think it it's about like having confidence with your unique strength as a starting point and then see how can we both use AI and sometimes be kind of Avoid the use of AI, but going from these kind of starting points. Exactly. And I think what you're highlighting is such an important point. Because a lot of the major media brands, even if you are being hit by traffic decline from Google search or whatever, that brand awareness is there. People know about the brand people trust. Most of these AI companies, just think about Perplexity and ChatGPT, only became a household name a couple of years ago. So there is still an opportunity But I would say maybe a closing window, but if you don't like reimagine if we just think about our business model coming from search or something like that. But Ashtiyan, tapping into that brand awareness that we have, the trust that we already have built with audience, and then innovate beyond there. I couldn't agree more and it's about having this kind of more holistic view on what we do, our output, our assets, where the brand, for example, is is a completely As unique and very strong thing. Remember what I said, yeah? People don't come to us for the AI functionality. They come to us for for the news and I expect that to be that's gonna continue and it's gonna continue that some brands we trust more than others and if you have a startup with an enc incredible kind of way of aggregating the news using AI or whatever. Yeah, it's a good thing. I mean for for us it's really good that they pilot it. Pilot that. We want to learn from it, but some of that stuff we're not doing with the BBC News brand, you know, because it's it's too risky. We have to be innovative but still see this kind of precious brand that we have as something that we have to be very careful with. On this note, Nikita, I I actually often quote you, do you know what quote I use? Is it the conversational news or the article is dead? No, you said in in this Nordic Air Media Summit, you said, why is our industry So easy to disrupt in the first place. What did you mean by that? Oh well it's turned on me. Well, I think when you think about Google search and we think about Just the social media, they make a a bit of an algorithmic change and it affects the entire media industry. Our entire department gets laid off as a result. All of that has happened and we've been burnt time and time again because of all of that. And so I think at the Nordic AI Media Summit, the big question that I asked and was talking about was that we're in a first principles moment, which means if you were just imagine you were didn't know anything, you were put down on the earth right now and you went into a newsroom, how would you reimagine what that ecosystem looks like? with the technological advancements of today. And I think that's what tech companies tend to operate from, that principle, rather than just adding AI to what exactly happens today. And I think that's That's kind of like the broader message that I was conveying over there. How do we reimagine journalism in this first principles moment that we are and rethink what we're doing? I think it's such a good way of putting it. I would argue though that in one way we are easy to kind of not disrupt, but at least it's very easy in a way to make the media industry uncomfortable. Especially kind of managers, you know. We get nervous when we're not across some of this stuff around AI, we feel stressed. Maybe this is uh threatening our whole existence kind of thing, but then we don't keep those kind of unique assets in mind as much as we should Look at the qualitative data that we have in our archives, for example, which is a another completely unique uh thing for us. So I think actually that Media industry executives are more easy to disrupt than news audiences, which is a very good thing, you know. I think comfort in that. I console myself with that Well, I I I mean, I speak also from experience. I'm from Canada and when Facebook and Meta made the decision to remove news off the platforms it affected the media ecosystem here in Canada quite a bit. A lot of small newsrooms, newsrooms that I used to get my news from, had to go away and they shut down and closed. And so that also just talks to the power that these tech companies have. And I imagine if that happens at a broader scale with AI, suddenly I get a lot of benefit from perplexity and Chat GPT. Yes, it points me to news sources, but when I want those hard, quick news. I can have a conversation with Perplexity and it gets me things much quicker than if I were to go onto a news platform, read through an entire article. because it knows exactly where I can pick up that information from. It's able to do that. That's an existential threat that I feel exists for journalism. Because if you look at the younger population, and that's where I always point the data towards, they are growing up in a system where AI is they're AI native. They do not know a lot of the kids being born today, they will never know a world without Chad GPT. So where and how will they pick up news? We already have a lot of people coming in, they've never picked up a newspaper. and there's a declining audience that are coming and young people are coming. So I think a lot of what I'm thinking about is how do we keep journalism as that trusted beacon that you're talking about, keep that BBC's value for generations 20 years down, people who are being born today in 20 years when they are in college, that they still come to the BBC. And how do we think about that? Yeah, I agree. And of course, I have to say that I have the privilege then to work in a large media company, of course, one of the largest in the world, and also with substantial funding, we're not kind of dependent on the ad revenues even if we carry ads in some geographies. So I have the greatest respects also for smaller publishers who feel really squeezed at the moment because Also, it's not just the ads, right? It's also about the successful conversion into digital subscriptions, which has been worked really well at least for for a lot of media companies like in the Nordics in the past. Five ten years. So yeah, that one is a tremendous challenge. But when it comes to young audiences, let's not forget also that they're not only using ChatGPT or the AI assistants for everything. They also use TikTok or they use Instagram or they use in Youtube for a lot of things. where we can also have and expand our our brands basically and our output on those platforms So AI, AI assistance, it's one very important, but it's one kind of aspect of this kind of whole growing ecosystem where I think we have to have the holistic view when we look at our strategies and actually also include some of the traditional platforms like radio, for example. Exactly. And I think that's gonna increase the number of touch points where people can access us is increasing as we are seeing. And I think that's where as a public broadcaster I'm wondering, should the BBC be giving out their content and data to Google, OpenAI? Should it be accessed wire smart speakers so people can access this? Or do you take a more protective stance towards all of this? It's a little bit above my pay grade here at the BBC and we have other fantastic people who are working with those kind of strategic question more than I. But if I just make an observation is that of course BBC and BBC News is blocking some of the AI assistants from accessing our content because we have shown with extensive research how our content is basically kind of twisted and and distorted sometimes in in those services. At the same time, we're out there with digital content. It's indexed by Google, of course, and we're out there on a lot of other platforms. We're also very open to tech partnerships, but it has to be on terms where we think it's fair to us and where it's representing our trusted content in a fair way. And I think We're gonna see those things evolve with all of the developments that are happening right now. And I think there are many ways in which, as you said, there's the strength that is there, the brand that is there is so we have a lot of unique advantages. And I think we can it's a time for us to lean into all of that. And our data is one of those biggest advantages because that's what tech companies don't have. That's what our newsrooms have. So I think it's been such a fascinating conversation hearing all of the work that you've been doing in the BBC. And but I want to hear a bit more about how have you been integrating AI in your own personal life. I mean I'm a foreigner in this country, right? So I'm Swedish, uh as you can hear from my IKEA English, and I use AI like every five minutes basically for my written communication. I mean one thing is when I'm chatting with my team on Slack, they are used to kind of me using a term in the wrong way or kind of making some some spelling mistakes or or whatever. But if I want to write more kind of formal emails to HR or to other colleagues and when I want to have that kind of more precise way of actually well translating or processing text then I use it a lot. So that's my I call it my better English uh GPT. But then I have a special one that actually I've been asked to kind of license out and that's called my British Lingo Decoder. So I've asked it then to explain colloquial terms to me or all these kind of weird acronyms that they use in in the UK and also especially in the BBC, maybe. And it hardly ever fails actually. I can throw in even very, very BBC specific terms that somebody would say in a meeting and I'm just nodding but I don't know what they're talking about and then I throw it into my decoder. And it can explain it to me both in English and uh in Swedish. So that just goes to show how much data they have been training those models on, right? Yeah. Wow. Okay. That's so helping you settle into a new country. That's what AI has been helping you with right now. That's the main thing, and I'm very grateful for that. Well, Ole, I'm so grateful to have this conversation with you because I took away a lot of insights into just what it's like building in such massive organization, over five thousand journalists, forty-two different languages. BBC is one of the biggest news brands. And it's in this moment of time thinking about what it means to be a public broadcaster in the AI era. And I've learned so much and so thank you so much for joining me on News from Robots and sharing your insights. Thanks. Any time. Newsroom Robots Podcast and sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.