This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy, data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their. Ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI is impacting the way we do journalism. Today I'm excited to bring back a returning guest, Florent Dodens. Last time we spoke, Florent was leading AI integration at Canada's national public broadcaster. Radio Canada as the director of News Gathering. Now he stepped into the tech world as the press lead at Hugging Face. one of the most influential platforms in open source AI. In this episode, Florent and I discuss the growing importance of open source AI, the environmental cost of AI tools the role of AI agents in newsrooms, and even what the future of news apps could look like. Hi Florent, welcome back to Newsroom Robots. Hey, thanks for having me again. Well, last time we spoke on the podcast, you were in a completely different role at Radio Canada and you are leading AI literacy efforts there. And now you're in a completely different role at Hugging Face in the tech industry as the press lead. I am so excited to get into that transition, that move that you've had. But also, what is Hugging Face? Tell us about the company. It has a huge space in the open source AI movement, but I think a lot of people are still. Getting familiar to that and the unique name that it has. Yeah, yeah, it's a quite a fun name. You know, the best way to explain what Hugging Face is is basically it's the community of AI. So We often have this analogy of it's a library or it's the GitHub of AI. Basically we have seven million users And on a daily basis they can make use of more than one point five million models. hundreds of thousands of data sets and also what we call spaces, which are basically you know AI apps. So for example, if you're looking for An easy to use transcription tool that you want to run in your browser without having to install anything on your computer, you can type like transcription tool and you will find The a demo with a whisper large, for example, which is one of the most powerful model to run on your computer and then you'll be able to uh transcribe it. confidentially on your computer but with our infrastructure. So basically it's like um we'd say the the epicenter of open source AI Yeah, and as you said, 1. 5 million models that are out there. And I think a lot of people when they think about AI are only thinking about Chat GPT or Clouds Anthropic or Google's Gemini. But there are so many models that are out there, and I think for people who are not very familiar with open source AI, can you talk about what that ecosystem's like? Yes, absolutely. In fact it's interesting because you know every development of ChatGPT or cloud and so on are based on open source because the R But Overall architecture is basically transformers, so it's a fundamental layer of AI. And Hugging Face has been really transformational in this because we basically adapted Transformers at the beginning of Hugging Phase. Can you describe what Transformers is for our audience as well? Yes, absolutely. So Transformers basically takes care of every technical aspect that you need to be able to converse basically with a model with your own words. So there's a lot going on behind the scene like tokenization and so on. So Transformers tech terror takes care of this And it evolves to have uh what we call for example pipelines. So you can have a specific task. Let's say you want to do some image classification So you will call the pipeline from Transformers and you will select the model that you want to use. So for image classification, you can have several thousand of them And you'll be like, oh, for my use test, I think this one is the best one because you know it's uh it's small or it's uh adapted to my language or whatever. And so you select this model and then you can basically you code a model with a pipeline, you have your image, and it will output the result. So it's it makes AI very easy to use and and really simpler that if you need to code everything from scratch. So it's uh it's really powerful in that regard. You know, basically Hugging Face has every big AI developer. For example, OpenAI is he is on the platform with uh Whisper and Clip VIT, Meta is there with uh Llama. Mistral, Deep Seek, and so on. So you have plenty of big labs who are basically hosting and sharing their models with the community. From there, the community will adapt, fine-tune, develop or push further the models. M So for example, for Deepseek, the last time I checked, we had probably two thousand models built on top of DeepSeek R1, which was, you know, a model that uh we we talked a lot about because it was really groundbreaking in terms of the reasoning capacities. And so you have this stack of big models and you also have plenty of smaller but task-oriented models. So for example, if you want to build a tool for retrieving your database. So let's say you are a news company, you have a search engine, but you want to improve it with conversational AI. Well you can plug your database of content to a chatbot basically, but to improve the results you would need to do what we call embedding. So Without going to the technical complexities, it will build a mathematical representation of your database so that the the LLM will be able to the model will be able to retrieve information with more accuracy. And we have a lot of embedding models that you can use. They can be multilingual, they can come in different sizes, so you really had to choose how you want to run this model, etc. So There are plenty of uh specific use cases that you can build with with Pugging Face, basically by choosing the best model. And one important thing is that with open source we really put the emphasis on being able to evaluate the models without the marketing fluff basically. So you are able to have leaderboards who will tell you We were able to perform this evaluation in a transparent and reproducible manner. So for example, for embedding, we have a leaderboard that is widely used and you can compare different embedding models to uh to find the best one. Yeah and with open source AI, everything is basically public, the models, the weights. You can tune it, you can run it locally, unlike the proprietary models that are there on like OpenAI has or Google has, where you can't host it traditionally. So what do you see as the wins for the news industry with regards to open source AI? There are basically three or four main advantages. The first one is really a being able to understand how the model has been built. There is a spectrum of openness, I would say. So You have open weights and you have fully open source models. So fully open source models you can really look under the hood and you have how the model was trained. You have the training code, but also you have the training data. So it's really important for news organizations because you know there are lots of questions and issues about Copyrights, where does the data come from? And you also want to understand what kind of bias the model can have. So if you generate outputs for user-facing tools or experiences, you really want to know how the model was built. So with fully open source models you can examine how the model was trained and built. With open weights, it's a little bit different. I would say the main difference is that you don't have access to the training dataset. So you can't retrace or trace where the data comes from, but you are really able to understand several key components of the models and more importantly you can fine-tune the model, you can adapt it for your needs, so you can plug your data set, train the model on it, and it will be better than the out-of-the-box model that uh that was um created by the the original model developer. I think it's also important to um to understand that you know many many interactions or discussions that I have with news publishers when it comes to uh dataset. They're like, oh but we don't want our data being used without our consent. It's really striking because I think the discussion has been so much focused on closed source models having like basically crawled every data that was available without any regards to consent that people are like, Oh, I didn't even think that I could have the the capacity to decide how I want to share my data. But it's foundational. Like on the hub you can really decide what kind of license you want to attach to your data set. So for example, you can decide, oh, this data set uh will be shared with uh a page to uh a license or MIT or or on the opposite a commercial license or not for for commercial use license. So it's really All about giving control to the user on how they want their artifacts, their models, their data sets being used. And then you also have in terms of really like important uh key arguments for open source. I think it's also the ability to build your own pipeline and to be able to analyze at each step what's going on and how to evaluate let's say you have a newer model on the market. Is it relevant to change or add a you know your pipeline for this new model or on the opposite Sometimes you feel like your model is very robust. You don't want to change anything? Well you're not gonna be you won't have to Som change everything because the model provider decide to do so. So you you basically can decide no no everything's gonna stay the same and and then that's perfect. And you can also decide how you want to build your pipeline. Like do you want to host the models yourself on your infrastructure? Do you want to rely on cloud providers or on inference providers So for example, if you want to quickly be able to analyze the capacity of the model, you can just call an inference provider. and try several different models. Like basically one of the on of the most powerful aspect of open source is you can switch models in one line of code. So it's it's powerful, it it avoids vendor locking. it will give you more freedom of choice. And this is why I think you know one of the key missions of Hugging Face is is basically fighting the concentration of power. We want people to be able to choose how and what they want to use in AI. I feel like another aspect to that is because you can host it on your own infrastructure it's more private and you have complete control over that. If you are concerned about your investigative journalist using open AI's tools Well, if it's a model, it's an open source model. So I I like to equate models to like a file that you can just download on your own infrastructure. You can download it locally on your computer, for example run that model, use it for really in privacy in a privacy-first manner. And I think another aspect that is we are evolving towards is not just having these AI models in in infrastructure, but also having them available to download and run on your laptop or run on your phone. When Deep Sea came out, like I think that's also an important huge win for the open source AI community Because that was not completely open source, but it was an open weights model and you were able to download it on your computer and you suddenly had equivalent to open AI's most powerful model, now open source being able to be in a privacy-first manner running on your laptop. And so how are you seeing that evolution of small models happening in the open source ecosystem? It's a fascinating question and the example you you just gave is is really excellent for that because Deepseek, the biggest model is I think more than six hundred billion parameters. So it's huge. You can't run it on your computer basically. But it was uh what DeepSeak did is it used this big model to teach to smaller models. So it's what we call distillation basically. And so they were also able to release, along with the big model, seven different models and I think The smallest one was maybe around seven billion parameters. So you can run it on your MacBook. You know, I have a a MacBook that that is not That new um I only have like 16 gigabytes of RAM. And from day one I was able to run this model and to have the most powerful aspect of the biggest one, but because you know the smallest one learn from it. So think about it as a a teacher-student relationship kind of. And what we're seeing is this strong tendency because especially, you know, with open source, the research is a never ending healthy competition to you know improve how AI models are built. So for example if you compare two versions of Lama, Lama 3. 2 was released in um I think it has been released in in last July and it was um more than four hundred billion parameters. And six months later you have a smaller model, so 70 billion parameters, which is basically you cut by five the size of the model, but with better performance. Because you know the training code, the training steps, the methods and so on. are constantly evolving and being improved. So you can really, really envision a small, more powerful model being developed in the next few months, in the next few years and they will be so powerful that they will be able to run on your laptop but also on your cell phone. Like for example recently we we released um small VLM 2 which is like a vision language model. It can understand videos And it's only 250 million parameters. So it's under really like under a billion. And you can shot list a video with it. So basically you send the video to the model It will run locally and what it will do it is extracting every image of the video and trying to understand the context and I tried it with uh an iPhone ad and and it was like okay at this at let's say at twenty seconds you have A white man with the glasses uh standing in front on the of a rainbow in a garden. Well you know you're at Copertino. And a is basically explaining something about a phone. And then you have the other slide is the the other screen is oh you have uh a screen with uh several marketing arguments about the battery life and so on and yet You have every shot uh listed in your file and it takes a few minutes, which is unbelievable. You know, I I used to work on in TV stations and and shot listing is a nightmare and it takes forever and then suddenly you have this small model running on your computer that is able to do the same task in a few minutes And without having to send any information to an outside server, so it's confidential. I also want to talk about the implications for cost as a result of this. Because smaller models, they're running locally on a person's device, or if you are running this within your company You're not relying on the big AI platforms and the exorbitant fees that tend to sometimes add up as usage evolves. So how does the pricing depend over here when you're talking about even smaller AI models and open source AI models? Well I think the pricing will evolve a lot in the next few months. So Uh basically because first of all we're talking about commodization of models. What we're seeing is really like the cost of inference is is going down and down, but also because the capacity of running models on local uh devices is becoming really easier. I think it's uh it's a strong competition against API calls basically You can think about the cost in different terms. You can think about you know economical cost for sure, but also the environmental cost, the carbon footprint, for example. Instead of relying on an external server, you can run it on your computer, which is already on because you're on it. It's a huge difference. And you know, at Hugging Face we we have a Sasha Luciuni, who is a a really stellar researcher in in the uh environmental footprint of AI, and she basically calculated that, you know, each time you're Sending a request to ChatGPT. Well, basically, let's say you want to generate an image with ChatGPT. Well, it's the equivalent on a full charger for your iPhone. So imagine if everyone is doing the same. it will pile up and the the the cost will be really huge. And and and you're seeing a lot of you know news articles about the fragility of the energy grid in the US and elsewhere. And you know, do we need to go nuclear to basic fuel the i boom and so on and i think part of the equation and and it's really fundamental to think about it is the ability to run smaller models on on your device And you know, each time you're running an open source model on your device, it was free to download, it's free to run, you don't pay any any costs. So it's it's basically really powerful. The only caveat is for personal use, it's perfect. If you want to build a more complex workflow, then you have to think about like what kind of server do you build and so on. So there's also a question of accessibility But with the compression of model, the accessibility of the models will be will become bigger and bigger, basically. Exactly. And the environmental cost that you brought up, I think that's something that actually gets overlooked sometimes in conversations about AI and it's really important because running AI models takes a lot of energy. And I wanted to ask you something that I get asked quite a lot is how can we as media organizations look at the energy footprint of our AIUs and reduce that. A way is in the beginning, well just go ahead and try to use Chat GPT and all of these AI tools. Not using AI is not a solution, but there are also ways in which we can keep track of what our AI footprint is. What are your recommendations for that? Well the first thing is is really be able to understand is AI is a better solution that what you're already doing. Because like You know, I think the news industry really focused on improving productivity as a first step with AI. That's okay, but sometimes it's like, well, do we really need AI for this specific task? I think it's the first question to ask. And then I think what I'm seeing from my perspective is more often than not the news industry is using big foundational models for tasks that could be tackled with small specialized model, but Probably because lack of you know internal skills or because you know for prototyping to you just ask a question to the chat bot and you get the answer. So it's like oh okay, let's do it like that. But you know, in the long run If you want to if you are really careful about how you want to deploy AI, and I think it's gonna be more and more important because if Basically, AI will permeate every news experience and and and news gathering and and lots of different aspects of of the news, you know, uh production. This question will become more and more crucial, basically. Exactly. And as you said, uh rightly so, I think the news industry might not be having all of the technical skills. To be able to harness open source AI. Hugging Face is a well-known name in the tech industry among developers who are using these AI models. But how can newsrooms who don't have this massive infrastructure and dev teams get started with open source AI? I think, you know, there are several aspects. One of the key advantages of open source AI is that there's plenty of courses, tutorials, strong communities to help you. Recently started a Slack workspace for you know journalists and people who want to build. together in in AI. And we had like 400 people on like day one or something, right? Yeah. I discovered that you can max out an invite link with Slick, which basically was a big surprise for me. But you know it it tells something. It tells that people want to understand how to build with AI. And it's fundamental because otherwise, and it's something, you know, it's really something fundamental for me. you has to make AI your own because it's not that complicated, especially because you know when you look at it, what is AI basically? It's the ability to talk to a machine with your own words. So the moment you're starting to understand The basics of it, well, it opens up so many possibilities so you can explore, let's say, you know, classification, sentiment analysis, and so on, and and it's not that hard. And you have plenty of no code solutions, which is a perfect point of entry because you don't need to understand any line of code, but if you want to explore more, when you can click on the files and then understand a little bit more about you know how the code was built and so on And I think, you know, it's also a a question of I talk to many, many newsrooms and what I'm seeing it's a little bit worrying I think, but um and it's not unique to the news industry, but I feel like We're seeing more and more a two-tier approach inside of newsrooms and inside of the industry because you have some people who are really, really interested in AI. And I would say maybe 80% of the people are like either they don't care or they don't have time or they're afraid of AI. So they don't kind of teach themselves about about it. So I think it really comes down to and you know. In my former career I was a newsroom manager and maybe it's because of that that I have this lens, but I really think it comes down to the importance of having a good leadership in the news industry because it's up to the leadership to build meaningful conversation to build a robust training architecture for their for their newsroom, for their journalists. And you know it the old paradigma of oh we're gonna build a training session, it's gonna be ready in six months and then The day we will give this workshop, we will have to, you know, replace everyone for a day so that they can have the time to do it. And you know, it doesn't work like that. You you you have to find more meaningful ways and and and to have Ongoing conversation. And I think the the fundamental aspect of it is also I had countless times this question from people who are like, oh, is AI gonna replace me? And I'm like, no. We have to explain the possibilities and and also to show concrete example or here is how AI is useful in your daily professional life as a journalist. And I think again It's the responsibility of people leading teams in in AI. And I've been there. I know the caveat. It's like, you know, the news is a is an eternal constant grind and and you have so many different priorities and so on. But it's really really fundamental to make space for AI in the daily discussions in newsrooms. Otherwise you have stronger competitors who basically will eat your lunch and it's gonna be complicated. That is such a great point about leadership and something that you experienced in your you really led at Radio Canada at your previous job. So you were talking from that firsthand experience. of how you were making that space of experimentation. And I usually point to Radio Canada's the tiered approach that you have as one of the frameworks and models to look at of how you can make space for AI experimentation in one of the national broadcasters um in a huge newsroom that's possible. And it's not just about training, but as you're saying, setting that tone, modeling that curiosity around AI. And just showing what's possible for people. Absolutely. And I think you're seeing more and more kind of AI chief officer being, you know, a name in in newsrooms and news in the news industry. And it's a good sign. They think to you know gear them up for success, you also have to give them proper like resources. And sometimes the you know the most important resources is just Time, time with people in the team and you know it's it's fundamental. And you know, I also teach journalism at the university and and sometimes It pains me because you have these young students, they're like, oh yeah, we I talked about this idea in my team. And people are like, no, we don't do this. And they're like You know, you're just a basically killing initiative. And don't get me wrong, I think the news industry is not badly suited to adopt AI. I think, you know, we had so many changes and shifts and so on that I think overall the news industry has been able to build an agile structure that is good enough to really be able to be up for the challenge of AI. But it's really like a question of staying aware of the specific needs of it. And you know, for example, when I was a data journalist maybe 10 years ago, more than 10 years ago, the way I I basically learned data journalism was with you know tutorials, communities online, and so on. But um it only gets you so far, first of all. I'm still a bad coder, which says a lot. But also I think you know AI is is way more fundational than for example data journalism. So it needs to be thin as a whole and how we as a newsroom, as an industry embrace AI and also decide what we want to make of and what we don't want to make of also, which is gonna be important. You know, I think it's gonna be One of the most probably one of the most important conversation this year is you're gonna see because we talked about the commodization of models, you're gonna see the tech industry going higher up the stack and and begin to focus more and more on building products and If you build more products, it means that you're gonna go for content or you know how people will interact with content. And I think for the news industry that's a crucial question to think about. Exactly. And also in that whole point of building AI and showing what's possible with AI, you've been doing that a lot at Hogging Face, showing with these open source AI tools, what are the different tools you've been building out and what's possible? And you created this tool of 20 open source AI tools for journalists specifically. Can you walk us through some of the biggest use cases that you see and how can journalists just access these open source AI tools where their data is not going and it's completely privacy first again over there. Well you know it's uh the I call this the essential AI toolkit. So basically it's uh twenty tools that you can use for daily tasks in in journalism. So you know Transcription is one of the most obvious one, but having the capacity to run the model locally on your computer is perfect because you know For example, if you have a confidential interview with a sensitive source, you don't have to send any info to an external server, you just run it on your computer. It's well structured, you have the dialarization, which means like the speakers are identified and so on. So basically it's really useful. One other example that I have in mind is um the ability to scrape website without coding. So let's say you want to retrieve uh every press release that has been published on on the website of let's say the White House or you know the House of Commons in Canada and so on. Well you just can Prompt the model with your words and you copy-paste the URL and the model would take care of you know scraping and retrieving this information and structuring it in a way that is going to be useful for you. You know, there are more like um funny or creative use cases. For example, you can edit images with your words, so you don't need to understand Photoshop. Uh let's say you want to remove uh A basketball from the image. Well you can just type remove the basketball and it's really impressive because it will remove the basketball but also the shade of the basketball. So the image will be like perfect. So let's say you want to generate social media thumbnails or that kind of thing. One of the most impressive tools that I saw is um the ability to um recognize character characters in um handwriting letters. And so my personal benchmark is uh you know the the US president transition letters because They write so badly. And each time I tried a a model, you know, sometimes I get uh maybe 80% accuracy, but recently I'm getting 100% accuracy with, you know, really like letters that are So hard to decipher evil even for a human, and I'm like, well, that's impressive. And you know you can also extract information from charts. to rebuild it in in your spreadsheet, you can optimize your headlines for SEO and so on. And also one of the most maybe Powerful use cases is also the ability to build apps on the fly with an LLM. So let's say you have an idea for audience-facing uh solution. You'll be like you prompt it and it will build uh really like a prototype and from there you can iterate You can add some functions and so on. It will not start from you know the first prompt, but you'll be able to get a good result in a few minutes of conversation. And again, for somebody who don't know a line of code, that's opening up like whole new perspectives on how you how you build solutions, even like being it internally or for you know audience facing solutions Those are the most exciting parts about building products or at least prototypes right now are becoming much easier instead of just saying something to somebody you can really demo things at a very small scale level. And those are the exciting parts right now. Absolutely. And this is where I think, you know, linking up to our previous question, being able to understand the capabilities and the possibilities of AI as a journalist is fundamental because there if you have this powerful tool at hand you're gonna be more creative. You're gonna imagine something like completely out of the box and it's gonna be like, whoa. And you know, I've been a Germanist for like 20 years and and the tools that I'm seeing today I couldn't have dream of it like ten years ago. So it's it's it's really like wow. And I think it's you who said this that Writing is basically building now in the age of AI. Absolutely. It's a way of thinking from from the tech industry. But you know, they used to say when you create code, you create value. But today When you write prompts, basically in a newsroom, you're creating value. And I'll take the example of the Financial Times. I recently this year this really interesting presentation where they were like, we think about prompt. the same way we think about code. So they iterate on the prompt. They have this common prompt library that everyone in the newsroom can have access to and they can work on it and say, oh, but yeah, I tried this and that and you know it improved the results and so on. And you know it's simple, but it's so powerful because I see so many journalists or people prompting alone, you know, on their computer and not sharing their experiments. And this is where you basically you create value inside of your newsroom because you have this use case, you improve it, you it's and you create value fundamentally. And you know extrapolating for the from this simple example. When you think for example about Notebook LM or Perplexity, you know, who are these two new products are really interesting. They are good innovations. But basically they are the intersection of tech and journalism or content. I'll say it again and again, I think these two innovations could have come from newsrooms because When you think about content and tech, you think about products and then you develop something new. And they are developing perplexity, especially on our content. Hundred percent. You know, perplexity without news is like an arm less, you know. But I think that raises a very important point. And a reason why that hasn't happened is because of what perplexity does is basically letting the user, the audience, be in the driver's seat about how they're going to be interacting with that content. And that is something that I think is As a news industry, we have been thinking a lot about, right? What happens to the editorial control, what happens to the tone of voice, and the way in which we are putting together our editorial decisions if AI starts taking those roles and comes in between that layer and into this whole space, another new trend or another fascinating shift that's happening is the AI agents are developing. So now when we say agents, we're not just talking about a chatbot or like a voice assistant or just going to perplexity and chatting with the news. These are now autonomous tools that can go and gather information, they can synthesize it, they can act on behalf of users or organizations. And we're seeing that with Chat GPTs like Deep Research, Google has it, like they'll go and create this entire report for you or Chad GPT's operator where you give it instructions and it can act on your behalf. to do stuff for you. That's still in its embryonic stage, I would say. It's not ready for full-scale deployment, but that's a huge shift that is upcoming. And AI agents are now, it's still unpredictable. But what happens and I think it's so important for us to start thinking about how AI agents are gonna reshape newsrooms and what happens when users are how are users gonna interact with journalism. So how do you think we should be thinking of that balance of having AI sort of giving users be in the driver's seat with AI and what happens to that editorial control then It's one of probably the most fundamental questions that we will have to to answer to in the next couple months. You know, recently the MLN society team at Hugging Face really is the framework basically on how to think about agent's control and what what level of control do you want to surrender kind of to the agent and it's really interesting because they structure it in a way that you have different levels of control and and so for example if you build an agent with tool calling Well, you surrender a certain level of controls, but you're still in the driver's seat because you decide how the agent interact with your content basically. But then you can go deeper and deeper and and basically you could reach the level of full autonomy. So basically you you let the the agent decide which tool it will use and even like if it needs to build tool on the fly it will do it and and it's really impressive. This capacity of building tools is already happening. And one of the most interesting aspects of this research is like how do we make sure that agents are here to help humans and and basically augment their capacities and not replace them? So it's uh it was really an inspiring read for me. Uh I was like, okay. How do we transfer this to the news industry? One key aspect in the way we can approach the question of agents. is yes how will newsrooms build agents but we have to keep in mind that people will be able to build their own agents too You know, recently I did this small experiment or where I was like, oh, you know, give me the latest news about the Earth score in the US. Basically I used uh what we a library called uh bro browser use. So it just open up my browser, go to the BBC Look for content on the homepage, find the article about the Oscars, read the article for me and give me perfect summary of this and can extrapolate and think like in two, three months. You can ask your agents to retrieve information for you. It will browse the website, give you information. You will never see the UXUI, you will never see the ads. and you'll just have the information you need. So how as a news company you are preparing for that? Will you imagine and it's a question that is really, really important in in coding, for example, at the moment. Like we build, we write documentation for humans at the moment. But you know, there's lots of discussion about coding will be made by LLM to the vast majority of coding will be made by LLM. So Do we still need to build documentation for humans or do we need to adapt basically documentation for LLMs? Is it gonna be the same for news? We can ask the question, and it doesn't mean that everything's gonna be written for news because I think people will still crave for, you know, well-crafted articles in the New Yorker, in the Atlantic, etc. But you know, for daily news, there's a wide spectrum of of stories and articles and formats, you know, at a certain moment in my day I need a quick recap of the news. Whereas, you know, maybe in the evening or on Sunday morning, I want to have a long read about something fascinating, completely, you know, out of scope. So So how do you define agent in the spectrum? How do you build AI tools? It's gonna be complicated, but also I think it it requires a fundamental thinking of, you know, we are not as news organizations, we are not in our ivory towers, we are not acting alone, we're acting in a whole ecosystem that is completely changed by AI. And you know, we are using AI on a daily basis. We are seeing the impact of it. We're seeing the efficiency sometimes of it or the caveat of it. So people You know, they they're starting to think about AI for news at home. So how would you connect to this? It's gonna be fascinating for sure. Exactly. And that's such a crucial point that you were bringing up. Like the interface is no longer just a screen and the website, but we're building for the agent and the behavior of the agent. And news is such a wide spectrum, but there is a certain part of the news that is going to be affected by agents. hard news and all those kinds of like you need those top ten kind of listicles and stuff like that like Chat GPT and Perplexity can give those to you completely designed for you. And suddenly I feel like journalism is not just about publishing information, but now we have to really lean into how do we orchestrate experiences and interactions. that audience can come to our platform. It's such a huge shift for our industry. Absolutely. And you know it's it's also more fundamental because the devices will evolve. It they will integrate TI. So imagine you know the metaglasses, but you know, also your earbuds, your watch, your phone, whatever, they will evolve your car will will integrate AI. So it will allow you to intermediate or mediate with with news, with information. So it's gonna be really, really important. There is a lot of questions about for example the user needs and how do we personalize content for people. But maybe it will up to each of us to decide how we want to consume news. And and let's say you're more like uh You like to chat with an AI? Well, you know, you you will have the capacity to really interact with your voice about content that you like, that's gonna be personalized for you. You could on the opposite have Some algorithm to bring more diversity in your news ecosystem or your news diet, so that maybe it will just open up some new perspectives. And you know, several key aspects of the expertise of journalists. will be mediated by AI. For example, the context. Like you don't need the same context as me for every news. And AI will be able be it from the publisher or because I decide to to have a different context than you. I'll be like, no, I I want to really deep dive into this, whereas maybe you're not gonna be interested. in that topic. So you know it's really a question also of how you will be able to to be integrated in this ecosystem. And you know there are also Really important question, for example, with publishers who sign deals with models providers. Like does it mean that only this content will be resurfaced in in queries? But you know, it's important to think about it I think the way maybe to frame it or to think about it is like agents. Basically, what it means is that for now we have think about AI as a chatbot window. But agents basically they bring AI outside of the chatbot window and they will go everywhere. So as an experience provider that you can be for if you are newsroom, well what kind of experiences you will offer. And also I'm connecting this to the compression of model. of models, you are able to embed smaller and smaller models on phones. So let's imagine if you're developing or updating your news app Well you could think of, hey, I'm gonna embed a text to speech model, for example, that is light enough to be run on the fly if the users wants to. So for example, I'm reading an article and I'm like, uh, I don't know, I I'm I'm late for work or whatever. Whatever, well, read the rest for me out loud in my earbuds and we're gonna have this capacity. And it's it's really great, actually, I think as a user. And that's why a whole reason I feel like one of the big things we also see is news becoming more conversational, like a whole new way to interact with the news that wasn't possible before. And a lot of that will be brought about by the compression of models and the ability for these things to run locally on phones. Yes, absolutely. They they will run locally on phones and also the capacity of you know improving the retrieval part of of information will be important. The personalization, you know, the quality of the voice is really evolving really, really fast. You know, you have some good prosody today. You can bring some, you know, I don't like to underperformise uh AI models, but you are able to bring um emotional dimension kind of in the conversation. You know, it's not the solvable bullet, but um for example for news avoidance. Maybe part of it is because people can feel either intimidated or or because news is not connected enough to their interest or because it's uh you know it it generates a lot of anxiety. But if you think about news as a conversation, basically, well, it's less intimidating. You can ask stupid questions that sometimes you feel you need to ask, whereas you know when you're reading an article, you're like, oh, I don't have the background to understand that. And you're on your own with your device, but that relies on the expertise of journalism, that relies on the expertise of newsrooms, on the wider context. I mean it could really change the experience of getting news. And I think again that brings up to another key point because for decades the revenue model that neutrooms have relied on quite a substantially has been that one core behavior of people go to Google, they search for something, then they land on an article, you get that ad impression. There are still a lot of newsrooms that run based on that ad. ad-based model, but that behavior is crumbling fast with all that we're seeing. Google AI overviews and perplexity. Chat GPT does a pretty good job. And in a key thing with Chat GPT that I've been noticing that they only search and pull from news publishers that they have a license with. So if you are not among that and if you have blocked Chat GPT, well good luck to you, you're not even gonna get be included in the sources. And so you're having that divide again with information access, I would say, because some people are not going to get information you're only probably getting a couple of places that they have deals with in Europe versus the general body of information that's out there. So that's a huge huge change to the user experience of news, but that's also a massive existential threat to the business model. So it's traffic is drying up at impressions. And then what replaces that? What's gonna replace that for newsrooms? And how do we even prepare for that? Because there's one side people are suing AI companies. again for the training on their content mainly, but then what happens to the smaller publishers who can't afford to do that? It's a tough question because well first of all there are several lawsuits that need to be, you know concluded like we we need to see the conclusion of these lawsuits to really understand how courts will see the question of fair use or fair dealings or the legal landscape it's called in in your country, but it's it's gonna have a profound impact on the way it will shape the conversation basically. As you say, I think these lawsuits are really focused on on training, whereas there's a lot of opportunity Opportunities in inference, because as we said, if tech companies will focus more and more on building products, I think they will need more and more to integrate news into these products And inference is basically when you go and ask a question, they get information from your website. That's inference. Training to be able to power and build a model like GPT. That was like a one thing that they're doing and developing on. But then that inference is like a continuing thing that will just explode i over time with the number of people exponentially with the number of people that will keep on using these models to go and get news. And yeah, I totally agree. Like the focus is there's a bigger opportunity with inference. Yes, absolutely. And and first of all with these startups, with these labs developing products, but also and this is where open source comes in, I think It's also a question of what kind of experience as a news publisher do you build with AI and are you able yourself to good to give good inference to your readers, to your audience, to your viewers, whatever. It's really important and I think it can really unlock new revenue streams because, you know, you can think about, for example You generate a video on the fly because a user wants to. Well, do you have the capacity to generate an ad with this video on the fly? And you create a whole new really, really on-demand real-time market for advertisers, it can generate really l lots of new revenues. But also, you know, one key argument of perplexity, for example, is for each query, we get 12 words. Whereas for a Google search or Google Query, you you just only you only get three words. So there's lots of intent in these 12 words that you can basically ingest to your database of personas, of you know connecting ads to buyers or to potential customers and so on. So you can really really think about new experiences and and new streams for that. You can also think about new personalization tools so you know to expand your audience basically. If you have an international perspective, for example, well aversioning or adapting your content for local markets. in different languages, it could be really, really powerful. I You can think also about building new verticals really m faster and more easily. It's also a fascinating question. So I think, you know, yes, there are really like big challenges in terms of monetization, but also important opportunities with AI. I think it's It's important to really think about what do you want to build with this. The relationship with external providers is going to be important. It's also a question of, you know, you have the tools to build something that's is stellar and and that could really gain you like more new audiences and and that's fundamental. Exactly. And I think maybe the future of media and journalism isn't just about Owning the content, it's about owning the experience. It's about the inference, the interaction, the integrations that you bring into your experience that's actually might end up being more valuable than even page views were Ever. Absolutely. And I mean, you know, newsrooms own the content. So now it's, you know, a question of how do you own the experience? It's it's yeah. Absolutely. It's investing in that dev, it's investing in the development to be able to power those experiences and encouraging innovation so that those tech products which should have come out from our industry We can power on and be able to do that going forward. You know, recently CNN and it's it's a difficult example because I think it really shows how painful it can be, but recently CNN decided to lay off I think two hundred people because they what they saw is you know their traditional broadcast content is is basically like the audience is plummeting. But on the other hand, they decided to hire two hundred people in data science, development and so on because they are seeing this huge shift in terms of audience. And again, I think it raises the question of you know how the leadership helps people that are already employed or that will be employed to have the capacity to, you know help and being being have an impact in this shift. And it's it's fundamental. Exactly. And coming into that, I think one of the other places where AI makes a huge impact and can make a huge impact and shift, and we've spoken about this. is making newsroom analytics shift from more passive to actionable. Being able to understand what a smarter analytics system looks like because right now it's all about dashboards and just data where it's telling you what happened yesterday and Instead, we can move to a more insightful, actionable way to be more proactive with our editorial decisions. And so how are you seeing and thinking about the way in which AI can help us in tasks just internally within a newsroom. Well you know I've been a a heavy user of uh tools such as uh Google Analytics or Chartbits. Reflecting on this, I'm like, well How performative was it kind of? You know, it's uh basically you're you're reading a dashboard and you're like, oh okay, this article is the you know number one or number ten. This number 10 should be maybe number two, so okay, I'm gonna adjust a few things and see where it goes, you know. But with AI you could have something way more interesting because First of all, if you understand the in intention of the user with your content, it's gonna give you way more insights on, you know what further articles you could create on this specific question for example, but also you could have agents performing several actions for you, such as hey, I'm seeing that this person is uh reading X and Y article and instead of you know which was already a good improvement but instead of having like paywalls adaptative paywalls You could have agents being able to really understand the journey of these users and be like, oh, how do I personalize content further on? for them and so the analytics is becoming powerful because if you have a report on hey today as an agent I perform X and Y tasks and what I can see from this is that you know, I don't know, we improved the CTR from maybe 10% and so on. So you can imagine, you know, a whole new stack of AI. analytics tools that are really more powerful than just a dashboard when basically you you don't always know what to do with it, you know We deploy basically each hard bit on every screen in newsrooms, but people are like, okay, what's next? You know, it's really, really powerful, both in terms of marketing ads, revenues, but also about editorial content. Like again, imagine if you are able to capture that on this specific story, this investigation that took you maybe six months, one year to to write, and then you publish it and Maybe you know 20 people ask the same question about this investigation and you're like, oh, but it's it's obvious for me, but I forgot to include it in my article. How powerful is it? I think you know It's really important to to think about how to integrate AI in analytics for that. Yeah, it's becoming more from a dashboard to now an editorial assistance that we can think of. Yeah, and and you can also personalize it for each journalist or editor. Like, you know, hey, you maybe have uh this tendency to write uh one sentence uh for as one paragraph maybe you can get some help or I don't know it's uh it's also powerful for that Exactly. Well, we've spoken a lot about the open source AI and all of the different ways in which AI. is changing journalism the way we know it. And I I'm very interested from someone who is now outside of the news industry or still part of it and connected to it, but you have a very different view by being a working at a tech company now. You whenever I talk to you are always at multiple different tech conferences and seeing the developments that are happening over there. What would you say to maybe Florent who was back at CBC, at Radio Canada, for somebody in the news industry and news leaders to be thinking about regarding AI and tech from what you are seeing over there the developments that are happening so quickly. I think the first thing that I will tell to uh the young girl Florent will be focus on what matters. And it's more a question of, I don't know, like like an experience or I don't know but um with news you are constantly bombarded by different things and and it this is this ever evolving landscape and and Sometimes, you know, I I remember like after uh a big day in the newsroom you you you go home and you're like oh but what was the lead today? You don't remember because you you know you talk so much about different things. And I think, you know, having this capacity of really focusing on where do you want to have an impact and and and what kind of idea you want to pursue that to pursue that is fundamental and and I think it all comes down to what do you want to build basically and and I think the tech industry has this lens of you know building things and and and shipping. And you know when you look at it in journalism we know how to ship basically we we ship daily and You know, I remember uh shipping a newspaper even if the newsroom uh you know had the fire the same day and and and we were like oh we need to you know produce uh the newspaper from from another newsroom Yeah, I think it's really like one fundamental more cultural aspect of of shifting from from news to tech, but also about AI I think it's a good question. Probably it's really personal. Like I I don't think it's um it's for everyone, but um I think I would have focused on building a stronger foundation in my coding and engineering approach because I'm still you know, an amateur kind of and and my code is dirty and and I'm not I'm not good at building it uh in a reproducible manner. So yeah. But other than this, I don't know, it's um it's still something that the acceleration of my capacities to build products Thanks to AI it always amazed me because I'm like, whoa, it's still like I couldn't have imagined this five years ago, which is which is really great. Exactly. I really like that point about I mean we ship daily and so that bringing that culture back in and the terms of way we do the products. The whole thing with tech companies is they run in sprints and they run so quickly just the way in which they are able to iterate, push something in front of the user. and get feedback and iterate again on top of that. And that product mindset is something that we are still building in this industry. And you know when I started that hugging phase, something that I found really interesting. I was chatting with Clem, our CEO, and he was like, oh, you know, the way we we build innovation is we launched basically maybe 500 innovations. And I was like, oh, I think I thought I knew one thing or two about innovation because for example at Le Devoir we we launched several innovations and so on. But the scope and the way they think about innovation is like completely different. It's like you innovate your ship, you don't fall in love with your innovations and you murder your darlings really quickly, but at the end you maybe have five innovation on top of that that really changed the trajectory of of the whole company. And This is what maybe I would have told to my younger Florent, like innovate faster and and you know don't fall in love with your innovations, that's fundamental. That's a go one. And I think that's something that we see. And one one interesting thing also from you and I learned you have a zero meeting, no meeting policy. Yes. At hugging place. Which helps with innovation. It was probably the biggest cultural shift for me and I love it. I mean after like the first week, like, oh wow, I accomplished so much and it doesn't mean that we don't have time to think about new ideas together and so on. So the the the only types of meetings we are encouraged to to do are for example brainstorming. But you know, for like alignment and so on, especially because we're heavily distributed There are like two hundred fifty people across the world and so we need to be able to build on a this distributed app. approach so we really really fine-tuned our approach with Slack, with Google Docs and so on. And the way it's done it is really impressive. And I feel like we are really encouraged to safeguard or uh deep thinking time. Again, at the end of the week you're like, oh wow, I built I accomplished way more than, you know, being constantly interrupted in in meetings. I've seen so many meetings with you know more than ten people and you're like, well, what do we decide here if we are too much under uh around the table, you know? That was an interesting interesting culture. change um and shifts to learn from over there. Absolutely. Well Flora, this has been very insightful as always talking to you. And I wanna hear again more about some of your personal AI use cases. Last time when you were on the show, you spoke about how you were getting ChatGPT to draw pictures for your daughter and that was one of your top AI use cases. How has that evolved maybe? So yeah, it's interesting because we're we're still drying unicorns a bit. but uh she's she has improved her brand so she's able to draw unicorns by herself. But you know speaking of unicorns, I think The main use case for me right now for for my personal use in AI is really what we call vibe coding. Basically like being able to build notebooks for the community, to build tools, to imagine new possibilities, and to be able to really see them being created with you know in this collaboration with the machine is is really impressive and and I think you know there's no single day where I don't use AI for vibe coding or you know, improve my writing and so on. So it's um it's funny because you know when we talked together maybe a year ago, last year. Yeah. Yeah, really. And you know, coding was not the most important use case for me with AI and now it really is and it's really really impressive. And it's accelerating. The ability for you to create these products so quickly. I remember the first time I did that and I was like that was an entire degree. I mean, you know, you can you can ship an app to the app store and it works and you're you're able to sell it if you want. That's uh that's something for sure And that makes it easier for people to innovate as well. Yeah, and at the end to learn to code also because you know. Instead of, you know, scratching your head because you forgot a colon somewhere, I don't know, you're like, oh, you're learning along the way when because you're able to had this conversation with the LLM or hey I have this idea how would you approach it? Oh okay I tried this but you know is there a better way and so on. and the explainability of coding with an LLM is is really a a good pedagogical approach. Like you you're learning a lot and and that's that's fascinating for sure. Absolutely Well, Flora, it's so great to have you back on the podcast and now on in a different lens and a different in set of insights that you have coming from the open source AI world. And I'm so excited to see how that evolves. And all of the I keep following all of the tools. Last time I used to see your LinkedIn posts all in French and that's how I knew all the work that you were doing. Now you have a whole newsletter, you have a whole Slack community, so lots of ways with which people can be updated with the work that you're doing and all of the different white coding experiments that you're doing to build out these products for the future experiences of news. Uh thanks for for the invitation and for everything you're doing because I learned a lot by listening to Newsroom Robot and it's fascinating to see, you know, the landscape evolving Maybe if we have this conversation again in in one year, it's gonna be fascinating to know to see where everyone is headed and how it evolves. So Maybe we should do that in another year and see how it's all how it's all evolved. Awesome. Thank you, Flora. Thank you, Nikita. So That was Florent Dordense, the press lead at Hugging Face. Stay updated with the Newsroom Robots podcast and sign up for a newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made Thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.