This is Newsroom Robots, the podcast where we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence and the news industry. I'm Nikita Roy. Data scientist, media entrepreneur, and one of the many founders currently building their ventures at the Harvard Innovation Labs. On the Newsroom Robots, I'm excited to bring you insightful conversations with industry experts about how AI. is impacting the way we do journalism. Joining me on the show today are Fabia Heckenberger the managing editor for AI at SCED, where he also leads the newsroom strategy work, and Alessandro Alviani, who leads generative AI across the newsroom. Fabia and Alessandro share how one of Germany's leading news organization is building and deploying generative AI tools with trust at the center, from designing reader-facing AI assistance. to setting up rigorous transparency labeling and risk management systems inside the newsroom. We talk about how they monitor AI tools in real time. Decide when a product is good enough to launch, and avoid the trap of building flashy AI features without real editorial value. We also get into how AI is supporting investigative reporting, social and visual storytelling, and newsroom workflows, and how SZ is defining success beyond clicks. by focusing on habits, quality, and long-term audience trust. Hi Fabia and Alessandro, welcome back to Newsroom Robots. I've had you both on the podcast on separate occasions, but now it's exciting to have you both together to explore AI at Su Techy Zaitung today. I've had the pleasure of visiting the newsroom and I was really struck by how intentionally you all have been designing AI. not just like bolting on to journalism, but I think it's more than just technology. It's really a design story. It's about workflows, it's about values. And you've been really doing that in terms of empowering journalists. and upholding editorial integrity. And both of you come from different sides of the newsroom. Fabia from the editorial side, Alessandro from the product side. And that's why I wanted to bring both of you into this conversation. to see how the two different worlds of the newsroom and the company come together, what that collaboration looks like and how you really build and drive responsible innovation in the company. I'm so excited to explore all of these themes today. And so I want to just Start us off to just understand how do each of your roles sort of differ and complement each other. If you can give us a bit of context, like how does editorial strategy and product development side of the AI projects function Of course. First of all, uh thanks again for having us. It's a pleasure to be here again, Nikita. To dig into your question, we are both working at the intersection of journalistic technical and product knowledge. But as you already mentioned, we come from slightly different focal points, and I think that's actually our strength and has been our strength for the last couple of months. To start first, my role is deeply embedded in the newsroom. As a managing editor, I'm kind of in the rhythm of the so-called editorial process, but have been dealing with editorial product development and transformation for more than 10 years. And in terms of AI, my focus is very much on the implementation of AI within the newsroom, fostering AI literacy, enabling our editors and reporters to experiment with uh several AI tools. And working closely with the executive editors to align this with our editorial and journalistic uh strategy. A crucial part of my role Right now is building and establishing a network of experts and frontrunners within the newsroom on the editorial side. So these are journalists who are curious about AI. Have been curious for the last couple of years, willing to experiment and can help us identify bottom up what actually helps our editors and reporters in their daily work. This approach is uh, if I remember correctly, something Zach Seward at the New York Times has talked about, and it really resonates with me. You cannot impose I guess AI from top down. You need these experts within the newsroom who understand both the journalism that can be powered by AI and the technology behind it. And of course the risks as well. So that's my focus point. And Alessandro, he focuses more on the product and technical infrastructure. And maybe uh one small episode when we meet in the morning. We both own a dog and the dogs are rather old and our first question in the morning is most of the time how is your dog doing? And after dealing with this question, we dig deep into the several AI projects and our partnerships work so well because we're constantly in dialogue about these different projects. So it's not an AI-first uh uh uh cooperation, it's a dog-first cooperation. A dog first cooperation. That's important. Yeah, I think this is this is really crucial. I mean AI-driven projects are cross-functional by by definition, by design. So and we really coordinate and cooperate at different levels. on joint initiatives, for example, like internal AI training programs. And I focus mainly on product development, especially for subscriber-facing products and features. And this includes basically planning and close collaboration with other product teams, technical implementation, as well as strategic cooperation and coordination with the publisher's C label leadership. And I think this is really important. This ties directly Into our mission of making high-quality journalism surprisingly easy to access. So it's basically helping readers discover and engage with our content in new ways. and create innovative products, AI-powered products that deliver both editorial value and and I think this is really important. when it comes to Gen AI products, business value. And they also closely monitor and analyze emerging trends and tools. like AI browsers, for example, or AI-based search tools to assess their potential impact on our media business. I think all of what you've brought about is very interesting. And I wanna actually just get a bit deeper into this because newsrooms are structuring teams now slightly differently to deal with AI. And I would just want to get a bit more backstory into how the newsroom came together to do this collaboration. Did that exist previously? How did you start to think about how AI collaboration needs to exist between the editorial and product side? The initial reaction when we brought AI to the newsroom more than two years ago, of course it was kind of mixed, which is exactly what we expected. So you had these early adopters who were excited, they're already experimenting with sterile AI tools, and you have the skeptics who worried about quality and job security as well. You have to take that very seriously. And a large middle crew who were curious but uncertain. And that's I guess pretty typical distribution for any technological change in a news rule. So our approach has been to meet people where they are in their daily work. Um we introduced Langdog. We started to introduce Langdog one year ago, which is um AI platform and a very coras crucial and foundational project that falls into the bucket of fostering AI literacy. This is a platform for all our employees across the whole organization, the newsroom but other department as well. It's a well-run and fast-growing startup based in Berlin and this tool or this platform allows companies to use different large language models but in a fairly data safe environment. And This is something we gave to people and still are giving it to people. And this platform enables our colleagues to test different models against each other, to learn how does each and every model work, what kind of results you get back. You can share proven prompts within the teams from colleague to colleague. You can build assistance and you can make them available to others. And this peer-to-peer approach worked very well during the last twelve months. 'Cause it's uh very trustworthy if your colleague right next door developed an assistant for maybe doing this kind of special research. and he hands it over to you, it's way better than if you get it handed over by maybe a managing editor as someone else who doesn't really sit next to your desk and maybe doesn't know exactly your daily work. So this was a very important step for us uh during the last uh twelve months. And how did you kind of like track and build that literacy over the past year? How would you say how much of the newsroom you would say is actively using these kinds of tools? Is there been an increase of of adoption over the months you've seen? Right now we're standing at almost fifty percent and by the end of the year I think we're gonna reach seventy to seventy five percent And that's okay for twenty twenty five, I guess. And we were fostering the AI literacy with this peer-to-peer approach I already mentioned and with the a best case training that worked very well is Alessandra established a format that's called Langdog Talk. Langdog again is the D AI platform we established. Within each and every talk, five colleagues Come to the talk and they they talk about a special assistant they've been building, they talk about a special use case. And they show it to others and that works very well. I just want to hear Alessandro on your end, how you establish this sort of line doc talks. If you can just talk a little bit more about What does good training kind of look like that you have been able to gather from all of these best practices of getting to train most of the newsroom? I think a crucial aspect here is empowering users and sharing knowledge. So that no one needs to start from zero. What do I mean by that? When it comes to this best practices meetings. I really put a lot of attention in trying to invite different people with different backgrounds, so not just the editorial, but also the commercial side, for example, marketing, brand, technical. So developers and to share knowledge and not just best practices but also fails. Why? It's quite interesting because when I approach colleagues and ask them to present If they whether they have assistance or examples, good practices they would like to share, they immediately think they need to share something that went really well. And I think I encourage them to share also fails. What do I mean by that? Well, first of all, we try to gather. To see if we can fix that or if someone within this framework within the space can suggest a potential solution. And second, because it's really important to see We are here to learn together. You don't need to reach immediately a perfect result, but let's work together on that. That's what I mean with empowering users and sharing this knowledge across different departments. I can share an example. I think it's really great. Our colleagues here at our brand team. They developed an assistant to double check if their texts are in line with their internal guidelines. And you might think this is a brand use case, but from the editorial side, we got also questions. Like, how do you do that? Because we have, of course, auditorial guidelines and let's share. So it's a similar use case, and we can learn together. How do you do that? Can you share the assistant with me and they can build upon this assistant. And it's great to see how people got it and started collaborating across different departments. If I may add, there's another example, vice versa. One of our Editors in our science department. He developed an assistant that allows our editors to chat. with huge scientific studies, PDFs with three hundred more pages to really find out very quickly what's the core of the study. Is it worth to dig deeper into it? Is it worth that we report and publish a piece on it? And this is something that almost every other team can use as well. And he presented it and within the first two hours he got like Over 30 text messages. Where do I find this? I want to use this as well. Can you show me how you build this? And this is exactly the peer-to-pre-peer approach we are aiming for. Exactly. That peer-to-peer knowledge sharing really changes it. And again, that bottoms up for poach when they're learning it from their peer rather than just here's this tool, use it. And I think that really works there. And I also just want to touch a bit because this question's been coming up a lot when how do you deal with the fear when people first encounter AI? that when people are first encountering AI and they have concerns about job security, the impact of AI on environment and power and all of those kinds of things and sometimes that itself causes a lot of fear and resistance towards this adoption. What's been your approach in terms of dealing with all of that there? I can start with the first topic, uh dealing with skepticism, dealing with uh some anger issues. My in my or in our experience it's very important to break it down from a theoretical to a practical level. And again, if you start working with people from the newsroom or from other teams on features, on the product side or on Tools on the workflow side, they realize very very fast and very well what are the boundaries and what are the chances of this new technology. And then we don't have these black and white discussions anymore and we don't have these uh doomsday scenarios anymore because everyone is way more educated to make up his own mind on what may be really helpful for me. Where do we have to draw some red lines as journalists and on the other teams as well. And it gives them the feeling to being part of this process, not standing before or in front of this new technology, reading about its chances and maybe its nightmare scenarios as well. But having not a real connection and no own judgment on that and giving people these this opportunity of building their own point of view, building their own perspective, building their own judgment, it really helps a lot. It's also about communicating. the added value you can get from those tools. And let me give you an example. And I think it's quite telling to me. And it's about Something that you might think is just a commodity feature. It's our article summaries. But I think it's extremely interesting to see it, to put it in relation and to see what happened historically. What happened is basically we had actually article summaries on our website already seven or eight years ago. And they were entirely manually written. So that basically the additional workload on editors was felt as too high. So at the end, we removed them. But they were quite successful with our editor, not with our editor, with our readers. So this year we reintroduced them with Genai support and human oversight. So basically, you have something that is valuable to our readers and subscribers. At the same time, we build them in a way that we could reduce. the overload on our or the additional workload on our editors because they are for example integrated into our CMS. So you just click on a button, you get your summaries, and you can double check it, and it's extremely important. It's not just Who is double checking those summaries is the person who has written the article or edited the article. So you have not just a human in the loop, you have an expert in the loop. So they can basically review them very quickly. And on top of that, What we are really paying attention to is developing systems that can learn and self-learn. What I mean by that is basically we have a service that allows us to compare the AI generated version with the version that goes online and is eventually manually or potentially manually edited, so that we can basically learn and improve the quality, but most importantly, reduce The need for manual edits. Why? Give you an example, we write FIFA. not in capital letters. An LLM will write FIFA in a sports article, a soccer article, and all in capital letters. Now why do Our editors need to manually fix it every single time if we can basically build a system that is reducing this additional workload on them. And they immediately got it. And now we have a system that is basically valuable to our service and a feature that's valuable to our subscribers and is helping. Howard the way how designed it, our editors as well. Talking about AI literacy, which was your initial question, Alessandro already mentioned the expert in the loop concept, and we stretched it way beyond than just checking the final result before anything gets published, before the summaries get published as a maybe a last chance of correcting them. We stretched it. over the whole developing and product process. So let me give you an example. Our economic section was involved within the first testing we did. on how these AI summaries could work for Suite Deutsch Zeitung. They were involved in re-crafting, rewriting the prompt. They were very interested in it. So we we just showed them the workbench and then they had the feeling from the begin on, okay this is something I understand more and more, I understand better and better. I'm involved from the beginning and this builds trust uh and AI literacy that helps a lot for other projects. And I think both of you are were highlighting a very interesting thing of how like the product development goes hand in hand with editorial collaboration. They're the expert in the loop. And also how these systems now can really self-learn and you can start to design these systems to get better and better. pick up nuances and that's an evolving nature of product development. And you've highlighted this one use case of how you're using AI to generate summaries, but I want to get a bit more of an overview of just What have been sort of the major AI-driven projects that you've been implementing so far? You talk a lot about the business value of these AI projects. So how do you bring that all together? Over the past few years, we basically focused on two main areas. So first we build internal tools like an SEO assistant in our CMS and a Figma-based tool. for our social media editors to help them create Instagram carousel posts in a more efficient way. And I think exactly like for summaries, there's something really important here. Our emphasis is on deep integration. So we want to meet our users. Where they already are. So we eliminate the need for them to switch applications. They don't need to leave the CMS and log in into a different platform, an AI playground, or whatever. This way we reduce frictions and we increase adoption. And second, we have basically we build several high-powered features and for our subscribers. Summaries is an example. We also use Genai to create easy-to-understand versions of our articles in order to increase accessibility. And for example, for the German general election, and I think it's extremely important here. We even had a very easy slider. so that users can seamlessly switch between the version in standard language and the version in easy language. And we developed three rack based systems here in review in 2023 on an EU. election assistant in 2024 and a chatbot for the German general election, we've launched AR-supported WhatsApp channels. for all eight districts around Munich, in which the two Deutsche Zeitung is published, we have their local content with editorial oversight. And we have been developing new thematic assistants, including voice driven versions That's very exciting because especially excited about the AI supported WhatsApp channels. You are actually getting into another distribution stream, making it local, having that expert in the loop. And you're having these WISE-driven versions as well, which I think we've had a lot of conversations about WISE and AI. I'm very interested to get a bit more deeper into this product that you've been building. Let's go first with I completely get the whole SEO assistance, social media, your meeting your people where they are and your editorial team that's helping with adoption. That's a trend I'm seeing across newsrooms. One of the ways to get editorial teams to adopt an AI tool internally is if it's already fits within their workflows. And the second part when you're doing it with like users and you're having this like easy to understand version of articles I want to get into the the feature you were talking about first, about the easy to understand versions of the articles. How do you create all of these different types of versions? Do you have an expert in the loop for every single one over there, or is it AI generating all of this? And how do you make sure about that factual accuracy? In that case, we have basically a combination of LLMs working together and a human oversight. Do So basically, we have a first LLM involved in translating, in generating a first version in easy language. And basically we have rules behind that in a very complex prompt to explain what it means to basically create an easy to understand article. So this is the first step. And the second step is basically double checking. Zen LLM as a judge. approach basically. Based on the original article, we check and double check the using LLM, the version, the first draft And then the final version is double checked by the article authors. And we use this approach. in very specific scenarios. And for example, for the German general election back in February, and for a multi-party investigation into sheltered workshops in Germany. And for this, we basically cooperated with a magazine, a specialized magazine, and there we had basically people that supported us as well, experts. that supported us in understanding how and assessing how good the quality of the easy to understand versions were and The feedback was extremely positive. People started asking you, are you going to introduce this for all of your articles? Basically it's great. And it seems like also for the AI supported WhatsApp channel, again, you're having that sort of like human in the loop. It's just Reaching multiple different people. Can you share a bit more about what that interaction looks like? Of course, this is um the AI layer is as scraping trusted sources, our editors defined in advance. And extracting key information on everything that's going on within these several districts. This could be concerts, this could be people giving speeches, this could be other events. And this could be like small news snippets. So it's not about large articles or extended analysis. It's about the small news builds and they get extended by this trusted sources. And our editors see them in an interface, they can check them, they can rearrange them, and then they publish it to to WhatsApp. And this wouldn't be possible with these kind of resources for all these uh regions and district without the AI layer, without the AI empowerment. I'm very curious about getting into actually the the project, first of all, that you all had about the elections chatbot. How do you even come to decide that this is let's create a chatbot for this specific topic? A lot of newsrooms are thinking, oh Do we need to create a chatbot? While some are just thinking chatbot is not necessarily, why should we do that? Everybody's doing it. It's not the interface. How do you decide that this is this is what we need to do, prioritize that and focus it on the elections? It's really about adding value through AI. What do I mean by that? Well, during an election, you simply can't cover every single party on every single position and on every single topic. So we built the assistance. Last year the EU assistance for the EU election and this year for the German general election to help readers explore political topics in a more personalized in a more interactive way. And chatbots can really offer a significant benefit here because they complement They enhance our coverage in ways that would be impossible without Gene AI. And they offer, and I think this is extremely important, they offer trustworthy and they are based on trustworthy sources. So basically the assistant for the German general election provided answers based on our SZ articles and on the party manifestos. And real important, he showed its sources. So, readers could click on the sources and dive deeper into specific aspects. And this project was a truly cross-functional collaboration. And I will go really, I would like to stress three aspects that are extremely crucial to us. The first one is the human in the loop approach. similar to the and expert in the loop approach. Well with thousands of questions coming in, you simply can't review every single answer generated by an assistant. But, so where does this human basically fit into this process? Well, it's basically involved through all the overall process. So for example, data experts and political and journalists, data journalists and political editors helped and cooperated to define the tone of their system. to set the right time frame for the knowledge base. But at the end, we basically we didn't just put humans and experts in the loop. We literally put readers in the loop. And this is a significant shift. What do I mean by that? Well during live operations we analyze user interactions. And to spot basically, to gain insights and spot potential gaps in our coverage. So we wanted to better understand emerging topics, emerging trends, and so this assistant. informed at the end our coverage and we can share later and look into a couple of examples. What do I mean by that? And there's a third aspect that is extremely crucial to us, user experience. And I think this aspect goes way too often is underestimated. So every time we build assistance, we build them upon the lessons from previous So from the last year's EU chatbot, we learned that users often don't want to type long messages. Especially on political topics and especially at the start of a conversation, they prefer clicking on predefined options. So instead of simply offering predefined Starting questions, we introduce persona-based text like I'm a student, I'm a pensioner, and users could basically click on them, click on a topic like climate change and pick one or more parties and the assistant will automatically generate a question for them. They could review it But at the end, they could click on send and they could jump right into the conversation without having to type everything themselves. So this way we could lower the entry barrier in a significant way and improve engagement. Well okay I'm gonna just jump back into my question to understand a bit more. How do you introduce this generative AI tool to readers and let them know that hey this could make mistakes sometimes because it is a generative AI product. We're seeing all of these studies about, oh People are not trusting newsrooms to use AI responsibly and tr that could impact the trust in news that is already so fragile. And so how do you even introduce your audience to that and not diminish your trust? By making it extremely transparent that what you mentioned those tools might make mistakes. could make mistakes. So first of all, combination of actions we took here. Reader phase, I mean, we had, for example, we have a Sud Dodge or we have a transparency blog where we explained what we have built and how it works. Second, we had a FAQ, basically, take all exactly those questions and we asked our users to give us feedback. If they spot any issues, they could basically reach us, they could give feedback. As for many AI-driven products, they can always give us feedback. And sometimes it's just uh binary feedback comes down. And we try to make the process as transparent as possible. For example, we published with our data scientists a technical deep dive to explain how we build it, to share knowledge. And how does this actually work? We even shared excerpts of our prompts so they know exactly the architecture of the overall assistant. So everyone interested, not in just the Also on the technical side can basically dive deeper into that. And I think transparency, it's extremely important. And there's an aspect we have been More and more focusing on and is designing a consistent design language for those tools. If you have a look at our assistant, it basically uses exactly the same color gradient effects. exactly in the same branded color as set green that we use, for example, for other AI power tools like our summaries. So they are basically they appear, for example, the summaries within a frame. Why is that? Because we want to signal to our users that this text area differs from the rest of the article. And by doing this in a consistent way, we basically aim at creating also this kind of visual habits, but colors are not enough. And I think there's a fantastic deep dive into this that our designers published a couple of weeks ago where they explained that colors are not enough. That's why we add always a clear label. That is AI, it's KI. German for account intelligence is basically German for artificial intelligence. So do we immediately see at the spot where AI is involved? Readers don't have to wonder whether AI is involved or not. They are basically want to show them clearly and build trust this way when AI is involved. And of course we make it transparent that those tools can make mistakes. Totally agree with everything, of course, Alexandra just said. Let me just emphasize emphasize this concept of transparency. I think this is still so important for me for quality media outlets. I'm not a big fan of the argument that almost every content already has pieces of AI in it or consists of is already based on several AI workflows, so you don't need to flag it out. I think the opposite is right. You need as quality media outlets, you're deeply depending on the trust of your users and especially your subscribers. So I think it gets more and more important. To transparent flag out where AI content is used, how it is used, and this helps to strengthen this trust, and therefore it helps to strengthen our subscriber business model. There's a crucial part, additional part, that I really would like to stress here in this risk management, because we talked about the subscriber side of this, but there is also something more that we focus particularly on and this risk management. And I think it's extremely important because this also It's often quite often underestimated. What do I mean by that? It's basically we ask ourselves, how do we minimize errors? How do we categorize errors? So priority errors and how can we differentiate them? And how do we react quickly when something goes wrong? In the case of the assistant, Before launching it, of course we run red teaming sessions to uncover potential hallucinations, but and I think this is really important. We put systems in place to monitor the assistant life. So let's say if someone tried to provoke inappropriate answers on sensitive topics. We could immediately respond. Why is that so important? Because this helps in conversations with stakeholders. It's about Setting the right expectations because errors can happen, errors will happen, but and this is I think the game changer, we know what to do. when that happens and we have systems in place to respond quickly and this is extremely important in building trust also internally with our editors, with our journalists, and with our stakeholders as well. Could you share a bit more practically like what those risk management systems look like for a chatbot product like this? Let's focus on quality, for example, and reducing hallucinations. So we worked closely with our editors from the very beginning to, for example, write reference answers. And we use those manually written reference answers as a golden standard to basically monitor at the very from the very beginning on the quality of the answers we got. And of course we started focusing on, and that's what I mean with priority errors, especially on one topic. That means we wanted to avoid voting recommendations. That was something we set up very from the very beginning. That's what I mean with having a clear risk management. This involves also Clearly defining metrics that are basically our North Star here. And those was this was our most important goal here. We want to avoid voting recommendations. It's about, of course. You don't want to build on a system that is guy giving recommendations because we want to be, we want to build, we want to stay neutral, we want to preserve our trust as a high quality newspaper. So this was of course something we really focused on. And this is something you will see basically we focused on throughout the whole process. Can we, and during live operations? So a part of this monitoring system that we I discussed was also based on let's check how the system reacts and works. when it's live, that means that involves also adjusting the prompt, adjusting the guardrails live during the live operations, several times per day. spot basically checks, spot-on checks to be sure that the system keeps working as expected and quickly reacting. Quickly reacting means I give you just an example we got basically We selected and pre-selected sensitive keywords that were extremely important to us. Why? Because if someone was trying multiple times to break the system by using those sensitive keywords, we would immediately get a slack notification. So we could react basically live. and try to better understand what's going on there. And I also actually want to jump into a bit, go back to the transparency point, Fabia, that you were bringing up. you disagree that you should be transparent everywhere, even if AI was part of used in the workflow. So like how how do you think about transparency? When your editors are using these different AI assistants doing the brainstorming process, doing the editing process to produce a final product. AI has been used in that process. So how are you transparent with your audience there? I think it depends on in what part of the process, in what part of the editorial process. AI particularly issues. If somebody uses an AI assistant for an early brainstorming on, I don't know, interview questions. And this was a case we elaborated on in the different trainings we did with our sports section. There was one example finding 20 questions for an interview with Thomas Müller. After he had left FC Bayern Munich to now play in the Canadian League. And we just did some brainstorming with uh one of our assistants we build up and the questions were fairly good. Of course, they didn't always match our journalistic standards, but this is one example where AI maybe can or cannot help in a very early process of editorial production. And of course, nobody would think about flagging this out when publishing the interview with Thomas Miller to the users. But the more you get to the end of the production process, uh Alessandro already mention already mentioned the summaries, uh, we already talked about the WhatsApp channels and when there's fairly a check in the end uh that the editors do, but part of the content maybe is produced by AI or uh suggested by AI. then our strategy focuses on flagging it out, making it transparent, and building trust by flagging it out and being transparent about it. So would that include like your headlines? because they're embedded within your CMS, they're being double checked, but if it's being generated in a way, do you get transparent about it at that level? I'm trying to understand like sort of where do we start? A lot of the questions that journalists and newsrooms are dealing with right now is like, how transparent do we get? And where is that cutoff basically where we can we don't have to share it with the audience versus we do? How do you explore that I think it's exploring step by step. What we would definitely do is making publishing an article in our transparency blog about it. So that each and every user or subscriber that dig into it or wants to dig into it and uh is interested in it can have a deeper read on that. I don't know if it would make sense to flag out each and every headline. We are not already not there yet. But what we are discussing right now, for example, is our TTS, our text-to-speech function. Where actually at the moment we do not flag out that this is an AI generated voice, but there were questions about it and now we are discussing this with the product team, within the newsroom, with our designers, and this is kind of a natural process, I think. getting there and refining the transparency step by step. I also want to just uh get into the other project that you were talking again on the editorial side of using AI to help you in creating visuals that get out on the social media. And it's being used by your visuals and graphics team that you were talking about. How do you ensure that these results that you get are aligned with your editorial and creative standards? That's interesting as well. Yes. Maybe you have to Separate the two different aspects, social media posts, which is monitored and controlled by our social media team. And they have been experimenting with it a lot and we refined the tooling and it works pretty well right now for AI-powered social posts, but again with the expert in the loop principle. If it comes to AI-generated images or AI-generated videos, we kind of have a very strict policy on that. And we developed this kind of strict policy very early. The leadership of our visual desk. And more and more visual experts on the desk, they are already very intensively engaged with exactly these questions and have been for the past two years. And that, just as a side note, that's actually our goal. Alessandra and I don't have to steer or implement everything ourselves, but uh rather that AI literacy is so well developed across all areas, and in that case the visual desk as well. that Alessandra and I primarily we coordinate, we enable, and we advise. But coming back to the to the visual desk A very early important and essential step by our Visual Desk was developing and implementing quite strict guidelines for the use and restriction of AI image generators for editorial use. Shortly after the release of ChatGPT in November 2022, we noticed a significant uncertainty among our users and subscribers. Which content is real and which is not. We all remember the Pope in the big coat and stuff like this. And a lot of these concerns were focused on pictures. particularly images, visual elements. So then we started building up these guidelines, as I already mentioned, quite strict when it comes to AI-generated images within the editorial context. And we were very clear about what's appropriate and what isn't. We use AI-generated optics only in the single exception case when we particularly write or report about this topic, when we write or report about AI-generated content, when we write or report about, for example, deepfakes. And even in this these exceptions we maintain editorial oversight on each and one of these single cases. And this again has to do with trust. gaining this trust and keeping this trust of our subscribers. And uh Nikki, if I can add two aspects here, even them, and I think that's a what Fabian is told right here on when it comes to transparency. Even when we report on photorealistic AI generated images, we add an overlay. that repeats the word AI generated. So it's immediately clear across different channels, different platforms and image crops. that it's an AI generated picture. So transparency. And when it comes to the tool we build together with our social team, even there, there's no image. AI powered image generation there. It's just text. So what happens there is basically editors can paste basically an article idea and starting from the article idea you get a suggestion for text-based slides within a carousel so it's a textual use case and why do we do that well It's not just producing those kind of posts in a more efficient way. The most important question there is how do you reinvest the time savings there? Can you develop new formats? And this is a crucial question we discussed with our social team. Can you reinvest this time savings in new formats that you could not produce so far due to time constraints? And so is that has that been happening now? You are able to reinvest that time savings to do something else? There are two metrics we look at. for uh for this uh tool in particular and this adoption because of course we want to make sure that we basically reach our editors with a tool that we built together. And first and second is basically time savings. And since we just basically completed the first iteration of this tool. So basically we now shipped it and now we have been basically together with the editors now we have that have started adopting it and using it. We have several posts that have been already produced with that. We're basically now tracking and monitoring together with them. how is impacting those tools impacting their work and then basically for the next iteration using this information, this feedback to 40. for the next iteration. So we are exactly in this phase where we are basically monitoring what's going on there. And monitoring, I think this is extremely put together. I want to also just get into a little bit about How do you identify needs for new products that you are building right now? How are you collaborating with Fabia, for example, to understand the editorial needs that might be there And prototyping that idea, testing it, what does that process look like? Well, we basically follow a clear product development cycle here from discovery, validation, prototyping, user testing, rollout. This is something that It's basically in line with classical product development frameworks, but there are some crucial uh adjustments here. And I think one we already talked about, it is already discussed, is risk management. And the second one is something is a key question that we ask very early on. Or two questions. First of all, if when we start talking about potential opportunities and potential pain points, there's one significant question we pose at the very beginning, and is is this An AI problem? Is this an AI opportunity? Is it something that we should address with AI tools? Or are there more efficient ways? even maybe more cost-effective ways of addressing this issue. And the second one is a question that we ask early on in this process, and this when is good good enough? Because we really want to avoid the perfection trap because this leads to something I called uh learning delays. So we want to be sure that we basically know when we are confident enough to ship this product and Be aware it's not when it's perfect, when we are confident enough that it's good enough to start learning. So we basically we launch in small cycles, iterate quickly, based on real user feedback. And you know this the Kanban system, you know, there is at the end of this Kanban system, there's this column, done. There is no done column when we build AI products, you know? There's no finish. We basically it's continuous learning, it's continuous monitoring and we are We get back to this basically learning system that we have, for example, in place for the summaries, and that's one quote from the MIT study that was highly quite controversial one about AI pilots that was discussed. Intensively a couple of months ago. And there's this one question that I think it's really interesting. And is basically that is must the i system Or let's say this this way: the biggest barrier to scaling AI is not infrastructure, is not talent, it's learning. Because most GI systems don't retain feedback, don't improve over time. And this is basically what we are trying to do. Exactly to get it different ways. to build system that can improve over time. That's such a crucial point that you brought up and I think very different from maybe other software development projects really where AI needs to constantly there is no done. You have to constantly monitor as the technology is evolving. And I think that's so crucial. And I actually want to just understand finally, like we've spoken a lot about all of the great innovation you're doing, all of this transparency, the products. But it'll just go finally into you spoke about business value. Now I think how do you sort of define what the success? metrics of your AI initiatives are. And I want to hear, like Alessandro, I think you bring the product aspect and Fabia from an editorial aspect. How do you define success of AI initiatives? I think this is a really crucial question. I talked about the about this this perfection trap, and I think there is a second trap. It's basically this shiny object syndrome. And we really don't want to build just flashy AI tools. Well, sometimes they can be interesting in specific scenarios, but we really pay attention to this. We focus on making sure that those don't take over. So we basically use flexible metrics. I already mentioned the Instagram tool. Let's take summaries as an example. What we monitor there and what we ask there is whether they Impact user engagement in a positive way. So we just don't focus on superficial metrics like clicks or session duration. We concentrate on something that I truly believe is getting more and more important and this building habits. So habits, how can we make our products our journalistic products, our digital products, more of a habit for users. How can we help them access content? in a more easily and basically gain knowledge and insights that they need for their everyday life. So And I think this is so important for us that we get to this habits. And this is, for example, something really focused on. And we are going to. Focus on more and more when it comes also to Gen AI powered products. So when it comes to the editorial side and workflow side and the tooling side I can start with a a little episode. Uh one and a half year ago, Alessandra and I spent hours and hours scribbling and laying out a workflow map of our editorial process. And we talk to dozens and dozens of people and we ask them what are your pain points. What blocks you from the real important journalistic journalistic issues, the real important journalistic tasks? And on the other side, what would help your reporting or what would help producing these different content types? And then we had this huge map. And then we ask ourselves, okay, where can we help with traditional tools? Where could traditional tech Maybe accelerate the process or maybe help remove some blocks and barriers. And then we ask the same questions regarding AI and this Fairly helped a lot to push some projects and to provide some useful tools for our newsroom. But when we started implementing the already mentioned AI platform. It's a it's a whole it's a whole new level for us. It's another game because we can see there what kind of assistance our colleagues are building themselves. And we can see We cannot see exactly by name, but we can see the usage of these different assistants. So we can see this assistant has been used five times over the last uh four uh four weeks, and another one has been used uh three thousand times. over the last four weeks. And of course this is a clear indicator then to dig deeper into this kind of assistant, this kind of tool. asking follow-up questions and maybe implementing it in our traditional CMS architecture or our tooling architecture. So this kind of playground, having this kind of playground really helps a lot to identify really useful projects. And if you talk about ArrowI It's being more effective on the one one side and it's being able to build better journalistic content that fits better the user needs of our subscribers. And that's what we are aiming for on the editorial and workflow side. That is so exciting. It's changing the way in which we're tracking usage and but really making it user-centered new types of metrics, whether it's editorial workflows or just the audience itself. And I think that it's very exciting the way your assistants are able to democratize access to what people are building and they can build a workflow for themselves. And then you can see it's used by multiple people, ideas that could never have been possible before, that's now possible today. I've just been very inspired hearing all of the different ways in which you all have been building products, but I want to end just on a maybe letter note. How are each of you personally using AI in AO life these days? There are already so many uh use cases in my in my daily and personal life at this point. So to kick it off, I use tools like uh relay and n8n for building simple agentic workflows. Things like daily briefings on everyday topics that I want to stay on top of. I use chatbots for creating travel plans. for the next vacation, which honestly saves hours of research and comparison. We just uh touched upon it. I also use AI extensively for audio like podcast summaries transcription of lectures or talks I want to remember sometimes even language uh learning And we already mentioned this in the professional context as well. I use it as a thinking or brainstorming partner for complex problems. It's like having a very patient colleague or friend who never gets tired, who's always available for these kind of brainstorming sessions. And last but not least, and this I used it two days ago when I was babysitting my nieces as one of my favorite personal uses is creating personalized bedtime stories. And they really love it. They're four and seven and when they themselves suddenly appear as characters in their favorite stories. You know, suddenly they are the ones going on adventures in whatever universe they are obsessed with at the moment. That's for my babysitting game, this has been an absolute game changer. Help to become the favorite uncle. Trying to be. Oh, Sandra? Well, we started with a dog-related answer, and I I guess we end up with a dog-related Answer as well. Well uh I use AI in in all sorts of ways. Just give you uh an example. I often use voice modes in ChatGPT or Gemini. when i'm looking for information and especially when it comes to my dog i have a a dock sound so a vena dog and at home and before i give him any new food I always ask, always ask an AI mode if it's safe for him. And well, I'll save you a search. And no, uh Daxon and Vina Dog and all dogs in general should not eat gorgonzola at all. Please don't do that. I also use, I'm a big fan of local LLMs. So I use, for example, LLM Studio to run local LLMs and connect them with apps like Notion through MCP. So I can basically build a second brain, kind of a second brain. I use huge fans here of N At10 and Mind Studio and uh automation systems. I for example use them to automate small tasks like sending articles. Searching and funneling and sending articles straight to my e-reader. I use of course the Notebook LM app. to generate audio notes so I can learn while commuting. And more of a professional kind of a mixed use. There's an app called Letterly that I really love because I basically I use it to practice. uh talks and give and get feedback and refine basically presentations and so on. Well, just as sophisticated as you are building out your AI product, even personally, with all of these automation tools powering your life, Both of you are pretty sophisticated as well. So that's really great. Well, it's been so interesting to get behind the scenes and really understand a lot more just what it's like to build AI, not just like efficiently, but like talking about the ethics. Creativity and being really transparent, especially through the design principles that you've been talking about. And I know a lot of people listening to this will definitely be inspired by that. So thank you so much. both of you for joining me on News from Roblox. That was Fabian Heckenberger, the managing editor for AI at SZED, and Alessandro Alviani, the lead for generative AI. To stay update with the Newsroom Robots podcast, sign up for our newsletter at newsroomrobots. com. This podcast is made possible thanks to the Harvard Innovation Lab's Spark grant. I'm Nikita Roy and this is Newsroom Robots.